.TH FILES 5 "21 January 86"
'ta .8i 1.6i 2.4i 3.2i 4.0i 4.8i 5.6i 6.3i
.SH NAME
MMDF FILES -- overview
.SH SYNOPSIS
Names, locations, and file modes for MMDF programs and files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
MMDF files separate into documentation, source code,
mail queue, channel host name tables, programs, and logs.
.PP
Pathnames to constructed files (i.e., everything other than source code
and documentation) are derived as a function of a default directory
specification and the specific filename.  The default directory
can be overridden, for a specific file, by having the filename
be a fully-specified path (starting with a slash).  The default
directories are defined in
.I conf.c.
.SS Documentation
.PP
Documentation is located in the MMDF distribution tape directories
.I doc
and
.I man.
The manuals are subdivided by directories for each part of mail software,
according to the V7 manual sections.  
.SS "Source Code"
.PP
The layout and contents of the source directories are described
in the document ``Installing and Operating MMDFII'' (normally
in doc/administrators/* in the MMDF source directories.
.SS Queue
.PP
The queue, for storing mail in transit, is described in
.I queue(5).
.SS Tables
.PP
The tables, for listing extensions to the list of local mailbox names
and names of known hosts, are described in
.I tables(5).
.SS Logs
.PP
MMDF system logs are described in
.I logs(5).
.SS Programs
.PP
It is assumed that a login and uid have been assigned to MMDF.  
The default assumption, throughout the distribution tape, is that
the login name is `mmdf'.  The default location for MMDF programs
is specified in cmddfldir[], for MMDF ``commands'' and in chndfldir[],
for MMDF channel programs which are invoked by 
.I deliver.
Both variables are specified in
.I conf.c.
.RS
.IP submit
Enqueues mail.  Its location is specified by pathsubmit[].
Its protection
modes should be 04711, and it should be owned by MMDF, so that it can
.I chdir(2)
past the quedfldir[] locking directory for the queue.
.IP deliver
Manages message transmission.  Its location is specified by pathmailer[].
Its protection
modes should be 04711, and it should be owned by root.
.IP slave
Runs as the server process, when other sites call over a phone
channel.  Protection should be 0711, since it needs no special
privileges.
.IP "channel programs"
These perform actual data transfers, at the invocation of
.I deliver.

They are named to reflect their actual task
Their locations are specified by the channel
definitions in
.I conf_chan.c
and default to the chndfdir[] directory.
It is very important that the directory containing the channel
programs be accessible only by MMDF processes, or else anyone could
invoke one and send unverified mail; hence make the "chans" directory
have protection 0700 and be owned by MMDF.
The ownership and protection modes of the channel programs
depend upon the resources they
consume.  For example, the program which delivers mail to the local
machine,
.I ch_local,
must be 04711 and owned by root, so that it can manipulate recipient's
protected mailboxes.  At some sites, telephone dial-out may be a protected
resource, so that
.I ch_phone
should be 04711 and owned by the same user as owns the dial-out.
.IP cleanque
Garbage-collects the queue.  It should be run regularly,
such as overnight by
.I cron.
Its protection
modes should be 04711, and it should be owned by root.
.IP setlogs
Resets the logs and may save message and channel statistics.  It is
a shell file and should be run as MMDF.  It should be run regularly,
such as daily, by
.I cron,
unless system performance needs close monitoring.
In this case, the logs should be retained longer.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
logs(5), queue(5), tables(5), cleanque(8), deliver(8), submit(8)
.br
\fIInstalling and Operating MMDF II\fR
