.TH MMDF_REGEXP 5 "01 January 2001"
.SH NAME
.SH SYNOPSIS
Configuring MMDF Regular expression table
.SH DESCRIPTION

Read sequentially the file specified by 
.I file.
The LHS of an line consists of an regular expression.
On success of the regexec() call, the RHS is returned.
If the LHS starts with 
.I !
then on failure of regexec() the RHS is returned.

.B type= 
.I regexp
.RS
.RE

.B addprefix=
<
.I 0 | 1
>
default:
.I 0
.RS
If set to 1, '^' is prepended to the LHS.
.RE

.B addsuffix=
<
.I 0 | 1
>
default:
.I 0
.RS
If set to 1, '$' is appended to the LHS.
.RE

.B cflag=
<
.I extended | icase | newline | none | nosub
>
.RS
cflags may be the bitwise-or of one or more of the following:

.I extended
.RS
Use POSIX Extended Regular Expression syntax when interpreting
regex. If not set, POSIX Basic Regular Expression syntax is used.
.RE
.I icase
.RS
Do not differentiate case. Subsequent regexec searches using this
pattern buffer will be case insensitive.
.RE
.I nosub
.RS
Support for substring addressing of matches is not required. The
nmatch and pmatch parameters to regexec are ignored if the pattern
buffer supplied was compiled with this flag set.
.RE
.I newline
.RS
Match-any-character operators don't match a newline.
.sp
A non-matching list ([^...]) not containing a newline does not match a
newline. Match-beginning-of-line operator (^) matches the empty string
immediately after a newline, regardless of whether eflags, the
execution flags of regexec, contains REG_NOTBOL (eflag=notbol).
.sp
Match-end-of-line operator ($) matches the empty string immediately
before a newline, regardless of whether eflags contains REG_NOTEOL (eflag=noteol).
.RE
.RE

.B eflag=
<
.I none | notbol | noteol
>
.RS
.I notbol
.RS
The  match-beginning-of-line  operator always fails to match (but see
the cflag=newline above)  This  flag  may be used when
different portions of a string are passed  to  regexec  and  the
beginning  of  the string should not be interpreted as the beginning
of the line.
.RE

.I noteol
.RS
The  match-end-of-line operator always fails to match (but see the
compilation flag REG_NEWLINE above (cflag=newline)).
.RE
.RE

.PP
.SH FILES
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mmdftailor(5), regexe(3)
\fIConfiguring MMDF Regular expression table\fR
