.TH SCRIPT 5
.SH NAME
script \- PhoneNet connection script
.SH SYNOPSIS
script
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PhoneNet link-level protocol
package establishes connections to a remote system
under control of a file called a ``script file'' or ``dialing script''.  This 
file gives procedures for dialing,
negotiating any login procedure on the remote system
and starting a related PhoneNet protocol module on the remote
system.  The file also contains settings for various connection parameters.
.PP
Script files consist of a series of lines,
each of which contains a command word and zero or more arguments.  
The list of commands below shows which
arguments are required for each command:
.TP
\fB#\fR \fIcomment...\fR
Any blank line or line beginning with ``#'' is treated as a comment and is
ignored. 
.PP
.nf
.B { 
   \fBalternate\fR
       # commands
   .
   .
   .
   \fBalternate\fR
       # commands
.fi
.TP
\fB}\fR
A sequence of commands enclosed by curly-braces is called a ``select block''.
The curly-braces must appear by themselves on separate lines.  A
``select block'' is composed of one or more ``alternate blocks''.  An
``alternate block''
consists of a line containing the command name, \fBalternate\fR,
and then some lines containing script commands.  An ``alternate block'' is
delimited
by the start of another ``alternate block'' at the same level
(``select blocks'' can be nested) or by the end of the current ``select block''.
.sp
The order of command execution within a ``select block'' follows some special
rules.  Control begins with the first command in the first ``alternate block''.
If that ``alternate block'' terminates successfully, then control jumps to the
command following the ``select block''.  If any
.B recv
command in the ``alternate block'' times out, then control passes to the next
``alternate block'' in sequence.  Successive ``alternate blocks'' are executed
until one completes successfully (i.e. no timeouts).
If no more ``alternate blocks'' are available, processing terminates with a
FATAL error.  For example, the following script excerpt uses a ``select block''
to send a ``break'' if no ``login'' prompt appears within 30 seconds:
.sp
.nf
	xmit "\\r\\r"
	{
	alternate
		recv "login" 30
	alternate
		xmit "\\#"
		recv "login" 30
	}
	xmit "accountname\\r"
.fi 
.TP
.B abort
This command causes processing of the script file to cease.  A FATAL
error is returned.
.TP
.B alternate
This command marks the start of an ``alternate block'' (see the \fB{ ... }\fR
command above).
.TP
\fBdial\fR \fIphone-number-spec\fR [, \fIphone-number-spec\fR... ]
This command causes the number(s) given by the \fIphone-number-spec\fR's
to be dialed or a connection via a direct line to be made.
More than one
.I phone-number-spec
may be given, separated by commas.
Each \fIphone-number-spec\fR has the general form:
.sp
.ti +.5i
.IR speed |< type > phone-number
.sp
The 
.I speed
parameter is the baud rate
at which the connection should be made
(from the set: 50, 75, 110, 134.5, 150, 200, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2400, 4800,
9600).
The baud rate is separated from the rest of the 
.I phone-number-spec
by a vertical bar, `|'.
.sp
The optional
.RI < type >
specifies the line-type to use.  If 
.RI < type >
is omitted, it defaults to ``LOCAL''.  Note that the angle-brackets are
part of the syntax and must surround the
.I type
to separate it from the rest of the 
.I phone-number-spec.
.sp
A 
.I phone-number
is composed of a series of digits,
in addition to the characters `(', `)', `-', and `:'.
Parentheses and dashes are ignored,
and may be used freely to enhance readability.
The colon indicates that the dialer should await a secondary
dial tone before proceeding with the dialing.
This is used with phone systems that use preliminary
digits to access outgoing lines, tie lines, etc.
.sp
If the
.I phone-number-spec
begins with a letter,
it is taken to be the name of a direct connect line.
The names and speeds of these lines are predefined.  See the "Installing and
Operating MMDFII" document for information about defining these lines.
.sp
Up to five \fIphone-number-spec\fR's can be given on a single
.B dial
command.  If
a connection cannot be made using the first number,
succeeding \fIphone-number-spec\fR's will be tried
in the order given before a failure is indicated.
For example, the following command:

.ti +.5i
dial 1200|738-2928, 300|738-8003

would initiate a call to the first number (738-2928) at 1200 baud.  If
the connection failed, it would try the second number (738-8003) at
300 baud.
.sp
The
.B dial
command also clears the input buffer to prevent rewinding by the
.B replay
command.  See the explanation of the 
.B replay
command below.
.TP
.B end
This command causes the terminal line to close
and interpretation of the script file to cease.
.TP
.B go
This command is a synonym for the
.B start
command (see description below).
.TP
\fBlog\fR \fImessage\fR
This command causes
.I message
to be written into the ph.log file.
.I Message
should be a quoted string if it contains spaces.
.TP
.B mark
As data is read from the remote system, it is collected into a buffer.  This
buffer can be rewound and examined by the 
.B replay
command (see below).  Executing the
.B mark
command clears this input buffer.
The
.B dial
command also clears the input buffer.
.TP 
\fBnrexmit\fR \fIretries\fR
This command sets the maximum number of times to retransmit
a given packet to the remote system in the event of failure to receive an
acknowledgement within the timeout period (set with the \fBwaitack\fR command).
.I Retries
must be greater than zero; five is the default.
.TP
\fBprompt\fR \fIpromptvalue\fR
This command sets the character expected as the prompt to wait for before
transmitting data to the dial-out or direct-connect line.  
.I Promptvalue
is a decimal number giving the ASCII value of the prompt.  If the prompt
hasn't appeared within 10 seconds of a transmission attempt, the connection
will be dropped.  This command is used when running on
half-duplex lines where the prompt indicates that writing is enabled.
.TP
.B replay
This command causes the input buffer to be rewound to the time of the
most recent
.B dial
or
.B mark
command.  The next 
.B recv
command will then look at data which may have already been examined by 
previous 
.B recv
commands.  The ability to replay the input stream is useful for adapting
intelligently to a selection of messages from the remote system.  For example,
the following script segment will connect to either line "A" or line "B"
in a simple terminal switch:
.sp
.nf
	recv "Request"
	mark
	{
	alternate
		xmit "A\\r"
		recv "A\-Connected" 30
	alternate
		replay
		recv "A\-Busy" 1
		log "A was busy\-trying B"
		xmit "B\\r"
		recv "B\-Connected" 30
	alternate
		log "Both A and B were busy"
		abort
	}
.fi
.sp
Note that a small
.I timeout
value was given on the
.B recv
command which followed the
.B replay
command.  A small value is adequate since the ``A\-busy''
string, if received, will already be present in the input buffer.
.TP
\fBrecv\fR \fIquoted-string\fR \fItimeout\fR
This command causes the interpretation of the script file
commands to pause until \fIquoted-string\fR is received from
the remote system.
The
.I timeout
specifies the maximum number of seconds to
wait for
.I quoted-string
before aborting with an error.
This argument must be present and must be greater than zero seconds.
\fIQuoted-string\fR is a string of characters
surrounded by double-quotes and possibly containing any of these
escape sequences:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
\\b	\-	 backspace (ASCII 8)
\\f	\-	 form feed (ASCII 12)
\\n	\-	 newline or line feed (ASCII 10)
\\r	\-	 carriage return (ASCII 13)
\\t	\-	 tab (ASCII 9)
\\ddd	\-	 ASCII value ddd (in octal)	 
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
If the \fBrecv\fR command appears in a ``select block'', instead of causing
the script to abort, a timeout causes control to be passed to the next
``alternate block'' (see the \fB{ ... }\fR command above).
.TP
\fBrecvill\fR \fIillegal-character-codes\fR
This command is used to specify the characters which cannot be
received by the local system.
\fIIllegal-character-codes\fR is a quoted string of the octal
values of characters preceded by a backslash.
For example,
the following command would declare all the codes between 0 and 017
to be illegal:
.sp
.nf
	recvill "\\0\\1\\2\\3\\4\\5\\6\\7\\10\\11\\12\\13\\14\\15\\16\\17"
.fi
.sp
Any number of
.B recvill
commands can be given in a script file;
the resulting illegal-character set will be the union
of the codes given in each command.
All
.B recvill
commands must come before the
.B start
command in the script file,
so that the illegal character set has been completely specified
before the protocol is started.  The default illegal-character
set is zeroed by the first
.B recvill
command to appear in the script.  The default set is: the control characters
(\\0 through \\37) and delete (\\177).
.TP
\fBrecvsize\fR \fIsize\fR
this command specifies the maximum length packet that can be received
by the local system,
not including the carriage return.
The number \fIsize\fR is decimal, with a value:

.ti +.5i
40 <= \fIsize\fR <= 255
.TP
\fBstart\fR
This is placed in the script file at the
point in the login sequence where
the PhoneNet protocol module on the remote
system has been started.  The
.B start
command starts the corresponding PhoneNet 
protocol module on the local system.
When the protocol has completed,
interpretation of the script file resumes with the line
following the
.B start
command.  This allows a clean logout procedure to be executed, if necessary.
.TP 
\fBstty-pr\fR \fIproto-set\fR \fIproto-clear\fR
This command sets the terminal mode of the dial-out line when the dial
package is in protocol mode (as opposed to script mode).  Protocol mode is
initiated by the
.B start
command and is the mode in which PhoneNet messages are exchanged.
.I Proto-set
is an octal number which determines which options should be set when protocol
mode is entered.
.I Proto-clear
is an octal number which determines which options should be cleared when
protocol mode is entered.  The octal numbers are defined in <sgtty.h> and
are documented in tty(4).  The default value for 
.I proto-set
is 0000300 (EVENP|ODDP).  The default value for
.I proto-clear
is 0177474 (ALLDELAY|CRMOD|ECHO|RAW|LCASE).
.TP 
\fBstty-sc\fR \fIscript-set\fR \fIscript-clear\fR
This command sets the terminal mode of the dial-out line when the dial
package is in script mode (as opposed to protocol mode).  Script mode is
the mode during which the script file commands such as 
.B recv
and 
.B xmit
are used.  Script mode is the initial mode and it is also re-entered when
control returns from a 
.B start  
command.
.I Script-set
is an octal number which determines which options should be set when script
mode is entered.
.I Script-clear
is an octal number which determines which options should be cleared when
script mode is entered.  The octal numbers are defined in <sgtty.h> and
are documented in tty(4).  The default value for 
.I script-set
is 0000340 (EVENP|ODDP|RAW).  The default value for
.I script-clear
is 0177434 (ALLDELAY|CRMOD|ECHO|LCASE).
.TP
\fBuse\fR \fIscriptfile\fR [\fIarguments\fR]
This command passes control to the named 
.I scriptfile.
If the 
.I scriptfile
doesn't abort, then control is returned to the line following the
.B use
command in the original script file.  There is no limit to the depth of nesting
available with the
.B use
command.  However, a failure at any level is passed back to the top and all
script processing ceases.  The optional arguments are made available in the
named script as $1 $2 $3....  Arguments containing spaces should be quoted
with double-quotes.  To get a dollar sign within a script, use $$.
.TP
\fBwaitack\fR \fItimeout\fR
This command sets the length of time to wait for data packet acknowledgements
from the
remote system.  If no acknowledgment has been received within 
.I timeout
seconds, the packet will be retransmitted.  The 
.B nrexmit
command sets the maximum number of times to retransmit the packet before
dropping the connection.  
.I Timeout
must be greater than zero; the default value is 10 seconds.
.TP
\fBwaitdata\fR \fItimeout\fR
This command sets the length of time to wait for data packets
from the
remote system.  If no data has been received within 
.I timeout
seconds, the connection is dropped.  
.I Timeout
must be greater than zero; the default value is 180 seconds.  Occasionally, a
heavily loaded system will take longer than 180 seconds to respond (perhaps
while sorting the message queue).
If the remote system cannot be made to respond faster by, 
say, subdividing its queue to reduce the sort time, then the
.I timeout
value will need to be increased.
.TP 
\fBwindow\fR \fIwindowsize\fR \fIsendwindow\fR
This command sets the link-level 
.I windowsize
to use when sending data to
the remote system.  Allowable \fIwindowsize\fR's are `1' (the default) and `2'.
A
.I windowsize
of `1' causes the link-level to pause for acknowledgment from the remote
system after sending one data packet.  A 
.I windowsize
of `2' causes the
link-level to pause for acknowledgment only after sending two data packets.
Normally, the remote system will have acknowledged the first data packet while
the second was being transmitted.  Therefore, setting a window size of two can
greatly increase throughput by eliminating most pausing for acknowledgments.
The 
.I sendwindow
flag indicates whether a special ``windowsize packet'' should be sent to the
remote system during protocol initialization.  If 
.I sendwindow
is 0, the packet is not sent.  If 
.I sendwindow
is 1, the packet is sent.  This packet, if sent, sets the
.I windowsize
that the remote system should use in sending data back to the local
system.  Normally, implementations of the link-level package default to a
.I windowsize
of `1' and require the master side to set
.I sendwindow
to change the default setting.
.TP
\fBxmit\fR \fIquoted-string\fR
This command cause the characters in \fIquoted-string\fR to be sent to
the remote system.  
The format of
.I quoted-string
is identical to that for the
.B recv
command (see above) except that two additional escapes apply:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
\\x	\-	 delay one second
\\#	\-	 send a break
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp
.TP
\fBxmitill\fR \fIillegal-character-codes\fR
This command specifies the character codes which the local system
is incapable of transmitting.  The 
.B xmitill
command behaves exactly the same as the
.B recvill
command (described above).
.TP
\fBxmitsize\fR \fIsize\fR
This command specifies the maximum length
(not including the carriage return)
of packets that should be transmitted by the local system
The number \fIsize\fR is decimal, with a value:

.ti +.5i
40 <= \fIsize\fR <= 255
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Suppose you wanted to set up a script file to perform 
the following phone call and login dialog using a standalone autodialing modem,
a Vadic 3451PA, configured on direct line "vadic1200":
.sp
.in +.5i
..PP
.if t .ta 1.4i 2.0i
.if n .ta 1.7i 2.5i 
.nf
^E	<-----	user types ^E to enter auto-dial mode
HELLO: I'M READY	<-----	modem responds with message and prompt
*D	<-----	user types dial command
NUMBER?	<-----	modem prompts for phone number
	<-----	user enters number and hits return
12225551000	<-----	user types <cr> to verify echo of number
DIALING: ON LINE	<-----	dials and reports when carrier
		is detected.
Welcome to the 11/70
Name: szurko	<-----	user types login name
Password:	<-----	user types password
channel: elec70	<-----	remote PhoneNet "slave" program
		prompts for MMDF channel name
	<-----	PhoneNet protocol startup
.sp            
.in -.5i
A script to perform this login sequence might be:
.sp
.in +.5i
.nf
window 2 1
xmitpack 130
recvpack 130
dial vadic1200
xmit "\\5\\x\\x\\r"
recv "*" 20
xmit "D\\x\\r"
recv "NUMBER?\\r\\n" 30
xmit "12225551000\\x\\r"
recv "12225551000\\r\\n" 20
xmit "\\r"
recv "ON LINE\\r\\n" 60
xmit "\\x\\x\\r"
recv "Name:" 30
xmit "szurko\\r"
recv "Password:" 30
xmit "secret\\r"
recv "channel:" 45
xmit "elec70\\r"
recv "elec70" 15
start
end
.in -.5i
.sp
.fi
An example script for establishing this connection using a dialport
(separate ACU and modem devices) would be:
.nf
.sp
.in +.5i
window 2 1
xmitpack 130
recvpack 130
dial 1200|<wats>12225551000
xmit "\\x\\x\\r"
recv "Name:" 45
xmit "szurko\\r"
recv "Password:" 15
xmit "secret\\r"
recv "channel:" 45
xmit "elec70\\r"
recv "elec70" 15
start
end
.SH SEE ALSO
mmdftailor(5),
``MMDF Dial-up Link Protocol'',  ``Installing and Operating MMDFII''
