.TH PHS 3
.SH NAME
Note the MMDF transmission phase (phs_)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "util.h"
#include "mmdf.h"
#include "ch.h"
#include "phs.h"

phs_note (thechan, phase)
    Chan *thechan;
    int phase;
phs_msg  (thechan, naddrs, len)
    Chan *thechan;
    int nardr;
    long len;
time_t  phs_get (thechan, phase)
    Chan *thechan;
    int phase;

phases:
    PHS_CNSTRT  /* start connecting to site */
    PHS_CNGOT   /* got connection to site */
    PHS_CNEND   /* end connection to site */
    PHS_RESTRT  /* start reading (sending) mail from site */
    PHS_REEND   /* end reading (sending) mail from site */
    PHS_WRSTRT  /* start writing (picking up) mail to site */
    PHS_WREND   /* end writing (picking up) mail to site */
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines are used to record the progress made during a
connection between MMDF and another mail system.  Sessions
are divided into the phases indicated above.  External
time-stamps are maintained, for each channel, for each phase.
The stamps are primarily used by the
\fIcheckque\fR(8)
program, but notations also are made in the channel log
(see logs(5)).  The time-stamps are maintained by setting the modified
time of files in channel subdirectories of the "phsdfldir" directory specified
in the MMDF configuration.
One file is kept per time-stamp (see FILES below).
.PP
Phs_note()
records the indicated event.
Phs_msg() is a special case; it records the transmission of
one message, noting the number of addresses for it and the
number of characters.  This is recorded only in the channel
log and is not given any external time-stamps.  Phs_get() returns
the time-stamp of the specified channel and phase.  If no time-stamp
exists for the specified channel and phase, phs_get() returns zero.
.SH "FILES"
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/cstrt" 30
PSH_CNSTRT time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/cgot" 30
PSH_CNGOT time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/cend" 30
PSH_CNEND time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/rstrt" 30
PSH_RESTRT time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/rmsg" 30
PSH_REMSG time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/rend" 30
PSH_REEND time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/wstrt" 30
PSH_WRSTRT time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/wmsg" 30
PSH_WRMSG time-stamp file
.IP "<phsdfldir>/<channel>/wend" 30
PSH_WREND time-stamp file

