.TH "BLOCKADDR" 8 "3 Dec 87"
.SH NAME
blockaddr \- Address blocking channel for MMDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
blockaddr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Blockaddr
is an MMDF channel program for intercepting mail to outdated addresses
and sending an explanation to the sender about the address change.
This program is called by the program \fIdeliver\fR and is not
meant to be invoked by users directly.
.PP
Depending on the setting of the first character of the
confstr= \fImmdftailor\fR channel parameter,
the 
.I blockaddr 
channel operates in either ``reject'' (confstr=``r...'') or ``warn''
(confstr=``w...'') mode.  In the ``reject''
mode, all mail is returned to the original sender with the reason
``Hostname no longer valid'' or ``Username no longer valid''.  A separate
message is sent to the
original sender explaining that the addresses used have been changed to
something new.
In the ``warn'' mode, all mail is resubmitted for normal
delivery.  In the case of usernames on the local machine, mail is resubmitted
to the ~username address to avoid alias loops.
A separate message is sent to the sender of the original
message explaining that the addresses used are about to expire but that the
mail was delivered anyway.
.PP
When an explanatory message is sent to the original sender, either in ``warn''
or ``reject'' mode, the initial text
of the message is taken from a file specified by the rest (i.e. beginning at
the second character) of the channel's
confstr= \fImmdftailor\fR channel parameter.
If this file is missing or its name is omitted,
.I
blockaddr
inserts its own initial text.  Appended to this initial text
is the list of addresses processed by the
.I 
blockaddr
channel and an explanation from the RHS of the channel's table about why the
address is no longer valid.  If the channel table does not contain an entry for
the address (see the example below), then
.I blockaddr
uses a ``canned'' message instead.
.PP
Note that you must include a host= 
.I locname.locdomain
parameter in the MCHN entry.
.SH EXAMPLE
To set up
.I blockaddr
channels to handle both expired users and soon-to-expire hostnames, 
put the following entries in your \fImmdftailor\fR file:
.nf
.ta 1.0i
.sp
.in +.6i
MCHN	blockhost, show=``Block Host Channel'', que=blockhost, tbl=blockhost,
	pgm=blockaddr, mod=reg, mod=send, host=dev.cs.net, 
	confstr=``w/mmdf/table/warnhosts'', ap=822
.sp
MCHN	blockuser, show=``Block User Channel'', que=blockuser, tbl=blockuser,
	pgm=blockaddr, mod=reg, mod=send, host=dev.cs.net, 
	confstr=``r/mmdf/table/rejectuser'', ap=822
.in -.6i
.fi
.sp
Put the following lines in your Top-Level domain table:
.nf
.ta 1.0i
.in +.6i
blockuser:	blockuser
blockhost:	blockhost
acme-cs:	cs.acme.com,blockhost
beta-vax:	beta.com,blockhost
.in -.6i
.fi
.sp
Put the following lines in your alias table:
.nf
.ta 1.0i
.in +.6i
ted:	ted@blockuser
alice:	alice@blockuser
.in -.6i
.fi
.sp
Put the following lines in your blockhost channel table:
.nf
.ta 1.0i
.in +.6i
blockhost:	blockhost
cs.acme.com:	``Address all mail to Acme Co. as user@host.acme.com''
beta.com:	``All users at Beta Co. are now user@beta.com''
.in -.6i
.fi
.sp
Put the following lines in your blockuser channel table:
.nf
.ta 1.0i
.in +.6i
blockuser:	blockuser
ted:	``Ted disappeared--if you see him, contact the FBI''
alice:	``Alice's new address is (groan) alice@competitor.com''
.in -.6i
.fi
.PP
In this example, mail to ``fred@acme-cs'' would be routed through the blockhost
channel which would send it along to ``fred@cs.acme.com'' and would send a
message
to the sender saying that the address used was about to expire and to ``Address
all mail to Acme Co. as user@host.acme.com''.  Mail to the local user ``alice''
would be returned to the sender and
.I blockaddr
would send an explanatory message
saying that ``Alice's new address is (groan) alice@competitor.com''.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIdeliver\fR(8), \fIsubmit\fR(8), ``Configuring MMDF Authorisation''
