.TH CHECKQUE 8
'ta .8i 1.6i 2.4i 3.2i 4.0i 4.8i 5.6i 6.3i
.SH NAME
checkque \- MMDF queue status report generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
checkque [\-fpszh] [\-t<age>[m]] [\-c \fIchannel channel ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Checkque
reports on the amount of mail waiting in the MMDF distribution
queue.  It indicates the total number of messages and the
size of the queue directory.  It then lists the number of
messages waiting for each transmission channel.
.PP
The \-\fBc\fR option allows one or more channel names to be specified.
If present, \fIcheckque\fR restricts it's report to the named channels.
.PP
The \-\fBf\fR option causes \fIcheckque\fR to print the
name of the oldest queued message for each channel.
\-\fBp\fR causes only channels with "problems" to be listed.
Problems are defined as channels which have have mail waiting for over
some "problem threshold".  The default "problem threshold" is 24 hours.
The \-\fBt\fR option is used to change the "problem threshold".  A number
of hours (or minutes, if "m" is appended) should appear without a space
after the \-\fBt\fR.
\-\fBs\fR forces an abbreviated summary listing instead of the
normal multi-line report.
\-\fBz\fR causes channels with no messages queued to be skipped in
the report. \-\fBh\fR causes inclusion of a report detailing waiting mail by
host for channels that serve multiple hosts.
.PP
Since the mail queue usually is protected from access by any uid,
except MMDF's, 
.I checkque
should be run under root or MMDF's uid.  It should not be made
\fIsetuid\fR() to mmdf unless you want to allow non-staff members
to see the queue status.
.PP
Most configurations
will have only two channels.  One is for local delivery and
the second is for off-machine relaying, such as by calling out
or by being called up, or by attaching to ArpaNet hosts.
Local delivery usually happens at the time of submission, so it
is rare that any mail is waiting in it.
Mail in other outbound queues is processed by
.I deliver
according to your site parameters, either by running
.I deliver
as a background daemon or by periodically firing it up via
.I cron.
.PP
A word about the size of the queue directory (aquedir[] under
quedfldir[]):  Under versions of Unix before BSD4.2, this 
only grows in size; there is no retrieval of space as messages
are processed out of the queue.  Since queues are searched 
linearly, this can lead to extra processing for
.I deliver.
Hence, it can be useful to know the density of the queue (how
many messages are actually waiting, compared with the number of
slots open in the queuing directory) in order to decide whether
to compress the directory.  This is a messy process, but can
be worthwhile in some cases.  For Unix versions after BSD4.2, 
however, directories are 
automatically compressed when files are deleted.
.SH FILES
quedfldir[]/addr
.br
quedfldir[]/msg
.br
quedfldir[]/q.*
.br
<phase-directory>/<channel>/*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
phs(3), deliver(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Crocker, Dept. of E.E., Univ. of Delaware
