.TH DBMBUILD 8 "8 January 1986"
.SH NAME
dbmbuild \- database builder for MMDF address database
.SH SYNOPSIS
dbmbuild [ \-nvdk ] [ \-t tailorfile ] [ database [ table ...] ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dbmbuild
reads the tables specified in the MMDF tailor file into a hashed
database for use in quickly verifying addresses and efficiently assigning
channels to submitted messages.  If no database file is specified, the
default dbm filename is used from the MMDF tailor file.  If no table files
are specified, all tables listed in the tailor file are used.  In particular,
three tables are read for each channel definition: the list of authorized
sources, the list of authorized destinations, and the table of names/aliases
for that channel.  Also, the remaining tables (MTBL and MDMN) are read.
.PP
The options are:
.IP n 15
Create a new database.  If this option is omitted, 
.I dbmbuild
updates an existing database.
.IP v 15
Verbose mode.  Print out information during table processing.
.IP d 15
Debug mode.  Report everything that happens.
.IP k 15
Keep going.  If a file is mentioned that doesn't exist, ignore it.
It might be appropriate to make this the default at some sites.
.IP "t tailorfile" 15
Specify alternate tailorfile.  Use this (carefully) to build databases
for use on other machines.  Normally, you should specify a database 
name when using the `\-t' option since you don't want to trash the local
database with the configuration for some other machine.  Note that use of
the `\-t' option will not affect the `\-n' interpretation (see below).
.PP
If no options (disregarding `\-t') are specified, `\-n' is assumed.  
Appropriate locks are placed on the database so that
.I dbmbuild
can safely be run while MMDF is in operation.
N.B.  Even use of the `\-v' option
will turn off the default `\-n' option.
.SH FILES
.nf
$(tbldbm).dir    - database directory
$(tbldbm).pag    - database pages
$(tbldbm).lck    - database locking file
$(tbldfldir)/*   - various tables that form the database.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dbm(3X), tables(5), dbmedit(8), dbmlist(8), "Installing and Operating MMDFII"
