.TH DELIVER 8 "20 October 84"
.SH NAME
deliver \- MMDF mail delivery process
.SH SYNOPSIS
deliver [-bdpsw]
[-c\fIchan,chan\fR]
[-l\fImins\fR]
[-t\fIhrs\fR]
[-o\fIhrs\fR]
[-m\fImaxsort\fR]
[-L\fIlogfile\fR]
[-T\fIsecs\fR]
[-V\fIloglevel\fR]
[\fImessage1 ... messageN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The deliver program handles the management of all mail delivery
under the MMDF mail system.  \fIDeliver\fR does not deliver mail directly,
but instead calls on MMDF channels to handle actual delivery.
\fIDeliver\fR's actions are guided by the MMDF tailoring file,
\fI/usr/mmdf/mmdftailor\fR, and by the command line options.
The program can run as either a daemon or a user-invoked program.
The program may be called to process the entire mail queue or just
handle some explicitly named messages.
When possible,
.I deliver
will attempt to process messages in the order received.
Deliver also maintains a cache of host information on a per-channel
basis which allows hosts which are unavailable for delivery
to be skipped until available.
.PP
.I Deliver
first builds a list of channels to process, either from the
command line or composed of all the non-passive channels in
the system.  Next, a list of messages to process is collected,
either from the command line or by scanning the mail queue for
for each channel.  If the the number of messages in the queue
for a given channel is more than \fImaxsort\fR (set in tailor
file or on command line), 
the queue directory for that channel
will be processed in the order read, without sorting by submission
time.  If a list of messages is given on the command line, no
sorting will take place and the messages will be delivered in the order
specified.
The sorting keys are (in order): channel,
submission time, and finally host.
This causes many accesses to the messages
but minimizes the invocation of channel programs.
.PP
.I
Deliver
is \fIsetuid\fR to the superuser to allow it to set its
real and effective UID and GID to that of the MMDF user.
.PP
The following options may be used to alter \fIdeliver\fR's behavior:
.TP
.B \-b
Background mode. Causes 
.I deliver
to run as a background daemon
making periodic sweeps over the mail queues looking for undelivered
mail and attempting deliver.  The invoker must be the MMDF user
or the superuser to use this option.
.I Deliver
attempts delivery for all eligible messages, then sleeps,
and then repeats the process.
The default sleep time is 10 minutes but it can be changed
(see the \-T option below).
.TP
.BI \-c channel1,channel2,...
Channel selection.  A comma-separated list of channels to be processed.
.TP
.B \-d
Already in ``quedfldir''.  This option will cause
.I deliver
to assume it is already in the mail queue and therefore it will not
issue an explicit chdir().  This is useful if you wish to have deliver
operate on an alternate mail queue hierarchy, mainly for testing.
.TP
.BI \-l minutes
Sets the ``time-to-live'' for entries in the dead-host cache.
This time defaults to 2 hours.  The dead host cache
is used to prevent attempts to deliver to hosts that are
known to be down.  The ``time-to-live'' is given in minutes.
If the number of minutes is negative, dead host caching is disabled.
.TP
.BI \-m maxsort
Sets the sort threshold.  If there are more than \fImaxsort\fR messages in
a given channel's queue, then they are processed in directory order 
without first sorting by submission time.  
If \-m is not specified, the value of 
\fImaxsort\fR is given in the tailor file by MMAXSORT or in conf.c.
.TP
.BI \-o hrs
This option tells
.I deliver
to attempt to deliver only those messages which have been in the queue over
\fIhrs\fR hours.  For efficiency reasons, this option only applies when
the queue is being sorted.  If an explicit list of messages was given on the
command line, if the
.B \-s
option is in effect, or there are more messages than the maxsort threshold (see
the 
.B \-m
option), then this option does not apply.  This option is useful for delivering
messages stuck on one channel over an alternate channel.  The two channels must
share the same queue.  This option and the
.B \-t
option are mutually exclusive.  
.TP
.B \-p
Pickup only mode. Indicates that the invoker would like to pickup
a passive mail channel.
.TP
.B \-s
Force linear search of the mail queue.  Normally
.I deliver
will deliver messages in the order they were received which
seldom matches the order in the directory.  This option is useful if the
queue gets so large that
.I deliver
can no longer deal with sorting the
queue in a reasonable time.
.TP
.BI \-t hrs
Time limiting. This option tells
.I deliver
to attempt to deliver only those messages which have been in the queue for less
than \fIhrs\fR hours.  For efficiency reasons, this option only applies when
the queue is being sorted.  If an explicit list of messages was given on the
command line, if the
.B \-s
option is in effect, or there are more messages than the maxsort threshold (see
the 
.B \-m
option), then time limiting does not occur.  This option is useful for
high-throughput channels to multiple destinations where some of the
destinations are very reliable and others are less so.  This option allows you
to process the new messages promptly and ignore the old ones that have already
failed and are likely to keep failing for some time.
This option and the
.B \-o
option are mutually exclusive.  
.TP
.B \-w
Watch the delivery. Causes
.I deliver
to print informative messages on the standard output as
it is attempting delivery.
This option is passed onto the channel programs
which also give informative messages.
.TP
.BI \-L logfile
Sets the logfile for this deliver to the file specified.
The default is to log into the file msg.log in the MMDF
log directory.
This option is only available to the Superuser and MMDF.
.TP
.BI \-T seconds
Sets the sleep time between background sweeps of the mail queue.
This defaults to 10 minutes.
.TP
.BI \-V loglevel
Sets the logging level for this deliver to the level specified.
The \fIloglevel\fR should be a valid mmdf logging level string such as FTR.
This option is only available to the Superuser and MMDF.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
submit(8), channels(7), queue(5), mmdftailor(5), "Installing and Operating MMDF II"
