.TH JNTMAIL 8 MMDF
.SH NAME
JNT Mail Channel
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The JNT Mail channel is structured and invoked in the manner
described in
.IR channels (7).
The channel generates files of the format specified in the JNT Mail
Protocol.  Copies of the JNT Mail Protocol can be obtained from
the Joint Network Team, c/o Rutherford Appleton Labs., Chilton,
Oxon, UK.
JNT Mail Files are created in the directory specified by the
variable
.br
        char    *pn_quedir
.br
which is tailored by the parameter NIQUEDIR (see the MMDF installation guide).
If #define VIATRACE  is set, the message header in the JNT
Mail File will be modified to ensure that a correct receiving
implementation will determine  a return path corresponding to
that passed to the channel.
.PP
When the file has been created, a file transfer process is
called.  Whilst this could in  principle be any File Transfer
Protocol, it is expected that in general the NIFTP (blue book)
protocol will be used.  The calling (execl) sequence is specified by
the channel tailor parameter confstr.  If the string contains a
sequence $(parm) where parm is one of the strings listed, the
value appropriate to the file will be inserted:
.ne 6
.nf

        file    - The full path of the JNT Mail File
        host    - The host (LHS of channel table)
        adr     - The address (RHS of channel table)
        sender  - Error return address

.fi
.ne 16
Examples:
.nf

For the York NIFTP:

MCHN  janet    name=janet,que=janet,tbl=janet,
        show="via Janet with NIFTP",
        pgm=niftp,poll=0,mod=reg,ap=jnt,
        confstr="/usr/lib/x25/mhhcp mhhcp $(FILE) $(ADR)"

For the UCL/UKC NIFTP:

MCHN  janet    name=janet,que=janet,tbl=janet,
        show="via Janet with NIFTP",
        pgm=niftp,poll=0,mod=reg,ap=jnt,
        confstr="/usr/bin/cpf cpf -t -f\e"$(SENDER)\e" $(FILE) @$(ADR)"
.fi
.ne 15
.PP
The channel interprets the FILE Transfer Protocol exit values
according to the values defined in h/jnt.h:
.nf

#define JNT_OK          0       (Successful)

#define JNT_TEMP        1       (Temporary failure
                                - MMDF will retry)
                                (This is the default)

#define JNT_PERM        75      (Permanent failure
                                - MMDF will send
                                an error message
                                to the sender)

.fi
If JNT_OK is returned, the File Transfer Protocol is expected
to unlink the JNT Mail File, to allow for spooled or
non-spooled operation.   In other cases, the channel will unlink the
file.
.PP
The JNT Mail channel runs setuid to daemon.  If it is used with
a File Transfer Protocol which expects a different uid, both
this uid and the ownership of the JNT Mail spool directory
should be changed accordingly.
.SH FILES
.nf

        <mmdflib>/chans/niftp
        /usr/spool/jntmail.ni.???????
        <mmdfsource>/h/jnt.h
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ni_niftp (8)
.br
.IR york-inst (8)
