.TH "LIST" 8 "8 Nov 84"
.SH NAME
list \- list processor channel for MMDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I List
is an MMDF channel program for handling mailing lists.
The channel functions as a feed-through between 
.I deliver
and
.I submit.
The list channel has its own host table and domain table
with one entry for the pseudo host ``list-processor'' or something
similar.
This program is called by the program \fIdeliver\fR and is not
meant to be invoked by users directly.
.PP
The 
.I list
channel performs two basic services.  First, it postpones
the verification of the list addresses and performs 
the (possibly lengthy) verification
in the background when the 
.I list
channel resubmits the message
to the mail system.  This prevents tying up a network connection
or a user's terminal when verifying a long mailing list.
Second, the 
.I list
channel will, under special circumstances, change
the return address for the message to a generic maintainer's address.
The return address is determined by first taking the destination
address (e.g. ``largelist'') and seeing if there is an address
in the alias file called ``largelist\-request''.  If there is,
then ``largelist-request'' is used as the return address.
If that was not found, the list channel checks to see if
the destination address has a trailing ``\-outbound''.
If so, this is
stripped and a ``\-request'' is added and the lookup in the
alias file is made a second time.  If the ``\-request'' address
is found, then that address is used as the return address.
If no ``\-request'' address is found, then the original return address
is used (normally the address of the sender).
.PP
To use the
.I list
channel to process a list, it is generally necessary
to make three entries in the alias file(s).
Let us say that we wish to set up a list called ``largelist''
and we want this list to be processed by the
.I list
channel.
We would need the following entries in the alias file:
.nf
.ta 2.0i
.sp
.in +.6i
largelist:	largelist-outbound@list-processor
.br
largelist-outbound:	</usr/mmdf/lists/largelist-file
.br
largelist-request:	maintainer
.in -.6i
.fi
.sp
The first line causes mail sent to ``largelist'' to be sent through
the list processor, readdressed to ``largelist-outbound''.
The second line is what actually references the mailing list
file for ``largelist''.
The third line is optional, and is used to set up the
(informal) standard maintenance address.  This \-\fIrequest\fR
address, if present, will also be used by the 
.I list
channel
as the return address for mail submitted to the list.
.SH SEE ALSO
deliver(8), submit(8)
.SH FILES
<mmdf-table-directory>/aliases \- to find list\fI\-request\fR addresses
