.TH NI_NIFTP 8 MMDF
.SH NAME
JNT Mail File Submission process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ni_niftp
Net File TSaddress
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Ni_niftp
is invoked by a File Transfer Protocol server to interpret a
JNT Mail File (see
.IR jntmail (8)
) sent to it.
.I Ni_niftp
queues the message using
.IR submit (8)
and returns error messages relating to bad addresses in the JNT
Mail file.
.I Ni_niftp
must be invoked with a privileged real uid (root, daemon, or
mmdf).
.PP
.I File
is the JNT Mail file to be submitted.
.I Net
is the network which the JNT Mail File has come from.  A table
niftp.nets must exist in the tailor file (see the MMDF installation document)
which has legal values of net on the LHS and the associated
MMDF channel on the RHS.   An example tailor entry is:
.ne 3
.nf

MTBL  name="niftp.nets", file="niftp.nets",
        display="NIFTP net to channel map"

.fi
This indirection allows the NIFTP to have different
channel nomenclature to MMDF,  and gives a measure of security
by preventing JNT Mail on spurious channels.
.I TSaddress
should correspond to the LHS of the associated channel table,
but may be in reverse domain ordering (on the basis that many
NIFTP implementations may only understand NRS ordering).  This
will be used in the message trace information.  If it is not in
the tables, it will be treated as a domain literal.
Any "," or "*" characters in the string will be mapped to "?"
for compatibility with
.IR submit (8).
.PP
The exit values of 
.I ni_niftp 
are standard mmdf exit values
as defined in h/mmdf.h.  RP_NDEL is given special
significance, as a JNT Mail File with no valid destination
address, where no return address could be determined.
.I Ni_niftp
will unlink the JNT Mail file, except in cases of permanent
failure, when the file will be left to assist debugging.
.ne 7
.SH FILES
<mmdflib>/ni_niftp
.br
<mmdfsource>/h/mmdf.h
.SH "SEE ALSO"
jntmail(8), york-inst(8), york-inst(8)
