.TH NICTABLE 8 "17 June 85"
.SH NAME
nictable - process NIC database into channel/domain tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
nictable
\-[CDT]
[\-d \fIdomain\fR]
[\-s \fIservice\fR]
[\-t \fItransport\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Nictable
is the tool responsible
for taking the hosts.txt table supplied by the SRI Network
Information Center and creating domain and channel tables.
The format of the NIC table is subject to change, and occasionally
this program must be modified appropriately.
.PP
The \-C option causes the program to generate a channel table on the
standard output.
The \-D option creates a domain table.  This option should be combined
with the \-d option explained below to state which domain table you are
building.
The \-T option creates a ``top'' or ``rootdomain'' table.
No trailing domain spec is removed from the LHS entry.
.PP
There are several options for further restricting the number of hosts chosen.
The \-d \fIdomain\fR option states that only hosts in the domain specified
should be output.  An exception to this is when \-d is combined with \-T.
In this case, all entries will be output EXCEPT for those in the domain
specified.  The intention is that you grap all of one domain with \-D,
and then grab everybody else with \-T.
The \-s \fIservice\fR option states that only hosts that are listed as
supporting the service specified should be output.
The \-t \fItransport\fR option is like \-s except it states that only
hosts supporting the transport protocol specified should be considered.
.PP
Typical usage involves two or three invocations:
.sp
nictable -C < /etc/hosts.txt > smtpchannel
.sp
nictable -D -d ARPA < /etc/hosts.txt > arpadomain
.sp
(and optionally)
.sp
nictable -T -d ARPA < /etc/hosts.txt > rootdomain
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"Installing and Operating MMDF II"
