.TH PROCESS-UUCP 8 "November 11, 1987" "U of Kentucky" "Brand X Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
process-uucp \- generate MMDF mail style domain and channel tables from pathalias output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B process-uucp
[
.B \-r
relay-host ] [
.B \-c
host ... ] [
.B \-d
domain ... ] file ... 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Process-uucp(8)
takes output from pathalias and generates tables one would want to use
within MMDF for routing UUCP based mail.
The two type of tables which can be generated are channel tables
and domain tables.
.PP
By default, the domain tables contain entries of the form:
.nf

    domain: domain.upper.domain

.fi
And channel table entries are of the form:
.nf

    domain.upper.domain: path!path!path!%s

.fi
These tables can be modified by the following options:
.IP -r
This option causes domain entries to be changed to have the form:
.nf

    domain: domain.upper.domain, relay-host

.nf
Locally I use this option in generating the original table, then
when installing the table I run the following sed command:
.nf

    sed "s/, *`hostname`.*$//" <table.new >table

.fi
which will remove the ", relay-host" stuff when we're installing
the table on "relay-host".
We have one host here which interfaces us to the UUCP network,
and that host is what is listed as relay-host.
.IP -c
This option causes there to be generated many channel tables
depending on the first host of the path.
The intention is to have authorization set up so that channels
where we pay out money to make the UUCP connection can be restricted
from people as necessary.
However, I have not managed to understand authorization as yet
and this is not used.
.IP -d
This option selects domains for which to make extra domain tables.
Domain entries for domains not listed in a -d option are
put into wrkdmn.uucp-top with an entry like:
.nf

    domain.upper.domain: domain.upper.domain

.fi
Sometimes it is desired to have other domains seperated out into
their own tables.
If -d is used, entries in these tables will be as described earlier.
.PP
NOTE that a wrkdmn.uucp-uucp file is not automatically created.
.SH FILES
wrkchn.uucp-uucp, wrkchn.uucp-<host>, wrkdmn.uucp-top, wrkdmn.uucp-<domain>
.SH SEE ALSO
pathalias(1), the MMDF manual pages and installation documents,
.br
<mmdf-sources>/src/shellfiles/RUN-UUCP, <mmdf-sources>/src/shellfiles/PROCESS-UUCP
.SH AUTHOR
David Herron -- Resident E-Mail Hack
.br
University of Kentucky
.br
Mathematical Sciences
.br
Patterson Office Tower rm 907
.br
Lexington, KY  40506
.br
.sp 1
david@ms.uky.edu, {rutgers,uunet,cbosgd}!ukma!david, david@ukma.bitnet
.SH BUGS
When writing records to files, all opens are done in "append" mode.
This means that if you do not remove the files before you run process-uucp
then you probably won't get what you really want.
.PP
The file names chosen are arguably silly.
However for my justification of the file names,
see the comments in the source.
