.TH "RECVPROG" 8 "28 December 85"
.SH NAME
recvprog \- MMDF inbound generalized program channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recvprog
[
.B -D
] [
.B \-c
.I channel
] [
.B \-{hv}
.I host
] [
.B \-s
.I sender
] [
.B \-M?
] [
.I addresses
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The generalized program inbound channel
is part of the MMDF mail system.
\fIRecvprog\fR is called by the transport layer trying
to be interfaced to MMDF.  For example, the ACSNET system
might call \fIrecvprog\fR to give mail to the MMDF system.
It in turn calls the MMDF program submit.
Since the program sets the trustme flag when calling submit,
it must be called by a process whose UID is that
of trusted mail submitter (generally only root and mmdf).
.PP
The options available are:
.TP
.B \-D
places the program in debugging mode.
The message is written to stdout
instead of handed to the mail system (mmdf/submit)
and many debugging printfs are turned on.
.TP
.B \-c
can be used to specify the channel into which the mail is being
submitted.
The following argument must be the name of a valid MMDF channel.
.TP
.B \-h
followed by a host name specifies the host from which the message originated.
.B \-v
is like
.B \-h,
but assumes the host name is in reverse domain order
as in the UK JNTMAIL protocol.
.TP
.B \-s
specifies the sender of the message.  The sender string must follow
in the next argument.
.TP
.B \-M?
indicates the mode for the program to allow it to accept
different input formats.
.B \-Mj
indicates the input will be in in JNT mail file format with
the addresses at the head of the file.  If this is not specified,
then the addresses must be given as the last arguments on the command
line.
.B \-Ms
is reserved for specifying Batch-SMTP input format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deliver(8), submit(8), sendprog(8)
.SH BUGS
This is a new channel and has not been widely tested, but will continue
to be supported in future versions.
Documentation of this channel is sparse at this time.
