.TH RMAIL 8 "7 January 1986"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rmail \- submit remote mail received via UUCP
.SH SYNOPSIS
rmail user ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmail
interprets incoming mail received via
.IR uucp (1C),
passing the processed mail on to
.IR submit (8)
for processing by the MMDF mail system.
.I Rmail
is explicitly designed for use with
.I UUCP
and the MMDF
.I submit
program.
It is not intended for use by regular users.
.PP
.I Rmail
performs several conversions on the incoming mail before calling 
.IR submit .
The conversions change addresses from the UUCP routing
style (lists of hosts separated by the character `!')
to the domain style of address used within the MMDF mail system.
The incoming message is dealt with in the following manner:
.IP 1)
The initial `From' (or `>From')
line is processed to discover the originating site
and the sender of the message.
Some UUCP mailers do not supply this information as part of the message
body.
If the originating site cannot be found from this information, the
program environment is inspected for the variable `ACCTSYS'; this is
set to the originating system by some implementations of UUCP.
The originating system is used as a table lookup value into the mmdf
table `rmail.chans', the file contains site/channel pairs.
If a match
is found the resulting channel is used for the submit phase.
The default UUCP channel is used if no match is found.
The default channel name is specified in conf.c source and
can be runtime tailored.  Typically it is `uucp'.
The existence of this channel is MANDATORY to prevent dropping
mail from unknown hosts.
.IP 2)
The body of the message is inspected looking for any header lines
containing addresses; the lines are `From:', `To:', `Cc:', `Bcc:'
and `Sender:'.
By scanning the address chains, the
addresses in these lines are converted into `user@known-site.domain' form
using the MMDF tables to evaluate whether the mailer knows the site.
For this to work properly, the unqualified name of all sites should exist
in the appropriate domain tables.
The scanning stops when an unknown site is discovered and a composite
address will be created.
The `From:' line is treated specially to preserve any comment information
which may have been inserted by the originating mailer.
.IP 3)
The `Date:' line is also re-written into ARPA standard form.
.PP
Before 
.I submit
is called,
the message is re-written into RFC822/733 form with all addresses
obeying the appropriate convention.
Any missing header lines are supplied.
The destination address for the message is taken from the argument to
.I rmail ,
and so the header re-writing which is done does not affect the routing
of the message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mail(1),
uucp(1C),
submit(8)
.SH BUGS
.I Rmail
should not reside in /bin.
.br
It is virtually impossible to do a completely valid conversion job.
.br
Rmail should be replaced by something that resembles Batch-SMTP.
