.TH "SENDPROG" 8 "28 December 85"
.SH NAME
sendprog \- MMDF outbound generalized program channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
sendprog (called by deliver)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The generalized program outbound channel
is part of the MMDF mail system.
\fISendprog\fR is called directly by \fIdeliver\fR.
It follows the standard deliver/channel protocol and handles outbound
traffic via some program specified in the channel table associated
with the channel.
.PP
There are two ways the channel can be configured.
In the first mode, the channel configuration string (`confstr=\.\.\.')
specifies the command to be used to send the mail with
certain strings expanded to per-message information (see below).
In the second mode, the conf string is null, and the address portion
of the channel table (RHS) gives the command to send the mail.
Again, certain strings can be expanded to per-message information.
.PP
The following strings can be expanded in command strings:
.br
.nf
.ta 1.7i
$(from)	expands to the from address
$(local)	expands to the local host name
$(to)	expands to the full addressee string
$(to.user)	expands to the user portion of addressee
$(to.host)	expands to the host portion of addressee
$(to.address)	expands to the address from channel table RHS
	(only when confstr is non-null)
.fi
.PP
The following is a sample program channel description for
the \fImmdftailor\fR file if one were to use the program channel
to interface to ACSNET system (untested to date):
.br
.ta 1.5i
MCHN	acsnet, show=``ACSNET Channel'', que=acsnet, tbl=acsnet,
.br
	pgm=sendprog, mod=reg, ap=822,
.br
	confstr="/usr/acsnet/sendfile -a mailer $(to.address)"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deliver(8), submit(8), recvprog(8)
.SH BUGS
This is a new channel and has not been widely tested, but will continue
to be supported in future versions.  In particular, the entry in the
channel table may become the name of a ``configuration file'',
describing the program, how to give mail to the program, and how to
interpret the return codes.
