.TH SLAVE 8
.SH NAME
slave \- MMDF PhoneNet Slave Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
slave
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIslave\fR program is the passive component of the PhoneNet protocol
package.  The active component is the \fIphone\fR channel (see \fIphone\fR(8)).
Typically, \fIslave\fR is the login shell for an account which is reserved
for picking up mail on a particular channel.  When invoked, \fIslave\fR asks
for the channel name of a pobox channel defined in the runtime tailoring file.
The user= field in that channel's definition must match the username of the
account running \fIslave\fR.
.LP
If a valid channel specification has been given, 
\fIslave\fR starts up the PhoneNet link-level protocol (dial package).
The dial package uses the default illegal character sets configured in
conf_dial.c and (possibly) overridden by DBADIN, DBADOUT, or DBAD in the
runtime tailoring file.  See section 3.13 of the ``Installing and Operating
MMDF II'' document for more information regarding illegal character sets.
The dial package defaults to a packet window size of 1.  It is the master's
responsibility to override that default if desired (see the ``window'' command
documented in script(5)).
.LP
\fISlave\fR responds to three commands from the master: pickup, submit, and end.
In pickup mode, \fIslave\fR passes messages which have been queued up locally
on the specified pobox channel out to the remote machine.  
It does this by invoking
\fIdeliver\fR in pickup mode (-p) on the specified channel.  The \fIpobox\fR
program manages the interface between the \fIslave\fR (i.e. the dial package) 
and \fIdeliver\fR (i.e. the mail queue).  
.LP
In submit mode, \fIslave\fR passes messages to the local \fIsubmit\fR program
which queues messages on the local machine.  The messages are submitted just as
if a pickup were being done with the \fIphone\fR channel.  The source channel
and host are set according to the values defined for the specified pobox
channel.
.LP
The end command causes \fIslave\fR to drop the link-level connection with the
remote machine.  Slave then exits.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mmdftailor(5), \fIphone\fR(8), \fIsubmit\fR(8), \fIdeliver\fR(8)

