.TH SMPHONE 8
.SH NAME
smphone \- MMDF SMTP-over-PhoneNet Phone Channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
smphone
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIsmphone\fR channel is the active (or master) component of the
SMTP-over-PhoneNet protocol
package.  The passive component is the \fIsmslave\fR program
(see \fIsmslave\fR(8)).
\fISmphone\fR establishes a connection to a remote machine's \fIsmslave\fR
by following
the instructions contained in a dialing script.  The dialing script is
specified in the channel's definition in the runtime tailoring file by the scr=
parameter.  Scripts reside, by default, in the table directory.  See script(5)
for information about how to construct a dialing script.
.PP
Once a connection has been established, the ``start'' command initiates
the PhoneNet link-level (dial) protocol.  Several dial package parameters are
set by commands in the dialing script.  The default illegal character sets are
typically compiled into conf_dial.c but those defaults may be overridden by 
using the DBADIN, DBADOUT, or DBAD specifications in the
runtime tailoring file (see section 3.13 of the ``Installing and Operating
MMDF II'' document).  The defaults may be further superseded by specifying
replacement illegal character sets in the dialing script.
The dial package defaults to a packet window size of 1.  It is the master's
responsibility to override that default if desired (see the ``window'' command
documented in script(5)).
.PP
\fISmphone\fR is a two-way channel; mail queued on the local machine is 
delivered
to the remote machine and mail queued on the remote machine is picked up.
If \fIdeliver\fR is called on a \fIsmphone\fR channel and mail is queued
for that channel, a connection is attempted immediately.
If no messages are waiting, then \fIdeliver\fR decides whether to invoke 
the channel
to do a pickup of mail from the remote machine.  Such a pickup is called a
"poll".  \fIDeliver\fR looks at the value of the poll= parameter in the 
\fIsmphone\fR 
channel's runtime tailoring file definition to decide whether to initiate a
poll.  If the value of poll is 0, polls are never performed.  If the value is
-1, polls are always performed.  Otherwise, the value of poll 
represents the number of 15-minute intervals to wait before doing a poll.  For
example, if poll=3 and no messages are queued to be sent out, then any
\fIdeliver\fR's attempted within 45 minutes of the last successful pickup will 
return immediately without attempting connection to the remote machine.
.PP
The SMTP-over-PhoneNet system uses the dial package as the transport level for
sending and receiving messages with standard SMTP (see RFC821).  The only
addition to conventional SMTP's is that the TURN command is implemented.  
\fISmphone\fR first acts as the SMTP sender, sending any queued mail to the
remote machine.  Then it sends the TURN command and switches to the 
``smtpsrvr'' role, accepting mail from the remote machine.  When it receives a
QUIT command from the remote machine indicating that all messages have been
picked up, \fIsmphone\fR resumes processing the dialing script
on the line following the ``start'' command.
.LP 
When acting as the ``smtpsrvr'', \fIsmphone\fR passes messages
to the local \fIsubmit\fR program which queues messages on the local machine.
The source channel
and host are set according to the values defined for the specified pobox
channel.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
In the following example dialog, ``S'' indicates the \fIsmslave\fR and ``P''
indicates the \fIsmphone\fR.  One message is sent each way and then the call
is terminated.
.nf

	S: 220 Server SMTP (Complaints/bugs to: MMDF@A.CS.OKSTATE.EDU)
	P: HELO RELAY.CS.NET
	S: 250 a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: MAIL FROM:<@RELAY.CS.NET:long@sh.cs.net>
	S: 250 OK
	P: RCPT TO:<vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu>
	S: 250 Recipient OK.
	P: DATA
	S: 354 Enter Mail, end by a line with only '.'
	P: Date: Tue 9 Jun 87 16:38:19 EDT
	P: From: long@sh.cs.net
	P: To: vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: 
	P: Hello, there.
	P: .
	S: 250 Submitted & queued (msg.aa00125)
	P: TURN
	S: 250 OK
	P: 220 Server SMTP (Complaints/bugs to MMDF@RELAY.CS.NET)
	S: HELO a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: 250 RELAY.CS.NET
	S: MAIL FROM:<@RELAY.CS.NET:long@sh.cs.net>
	P: 250 OK
	S: RCPT TO:<vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu>
	P: 250 Recipient OK.
	S: DATA
	P: 354 Enter Mail, end by a line with only '.'
	S: Date: Tue 9 Jun 87 13:33:48 EDT
	S: From: vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu
	S: To: long@relay.cs.net
	S:
	S: It works!
	S: .
	P: 250 Submitted & queued (msg.aa10744)
	S: QUIT
	P: 221 session complete at Wed Jun 10 03:58:23.

.fi

.PP

.SH "TROUBLESHOOTING"
If a connection to a remote \fIsmslave\fR cannot be made, check the PHLOG
(usually ph.log) for information about why the connection is failing.  If
possible, try to connect to the remote \fIsmslave\fR by hand.  If the manual
attempt fails, you know to go check the modem (or direct line) and the remote
machine for problems.
.PP
Often a connection will be made with the remote machine but
there will be a problem getting to the point where the \fIsmslave\fR begins the
link-level protocol.  A common error message to see in PHLOG is: 
``Timeout while processing script''.  This message indicates that a string
expected by a ``recv'' command was not matched within the specified
number of seconds.  Look in the transcript file (specified by the trn= channel
parameter which defaults to DEFTRAN, usually ph.trn) to see why the ``recv''
string was not matched.  
.PP
Often, noise characters can prevent transmitted
strings from being received correctly by the remote host.  One trick to reduce
the possibility of interference is to precede transmitted lines with the remote
machine's line-erase character (e.g. xmit ``@username\\r'').
.SH "SEE ALSO"
script(5), mmdftailor(5), \fIsmslave\fR(8), \fIdeliver\fR(8),
\fIsubmit\fR(8), RFC821

