.TH SMSLAVE 8
.SH NAME
smslave \- MMDF SMTP-over-PhoneNet Slave Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
smslave
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIsmslave\fR program is the passive component of the
SMTP-over-PhoneNet protocol
package.  The active component is the \fIsmphone\fR channel (see
\fIsmphone\fR(8)).
Typically, \fIsmslave\fR is the login shell for an account which is reserved
for picking up mail on a particular channel.  When invoked, \fIsmslave\fR asks
for the channel name of a pobox channel defined in the runtime tailoring file.
The user= field in that channel's definition must match the username of the
account running \fIsmslave\fR.
.LP
If a valid channel specification has been given, 
\fIsmslave\fR starts up the PhoneNet link-level protocol (dial package).
The dial package uses the default illegal character sets configured in
conf_dial.c and (possibly) overridden by DBADIN, DBADOUT, or DBAD in the
runtime tailoring file.  See section 3.13 of the ``Installing and Operating
MMDF II'' document for more information regarding illegal character sets.
The dial package defaults to a packet window size of 1.  It is the master's
responsibility to override that default if desired (see the ``window'' command
documented in script(5)).
.LP
The SMTP-over-PhoneNet system uses the dial package as the transport level for
sending and receiving messages with standard SMTP (see RFC821).  The only
addition to conventional SMTP's is that the TURN command is implemented.  
\fISmslave\fR first acts as the ``smtpsrvr'', accepting mail from the remote
machine, and then, upon receipt of a TURN command, switches roles and acts as
the SMTP sender, sending any queued mail to the remote machine.  
.LP 
When acting as the SMTP sender, \fIsmslave\fR invokes 
\fIdeliver\fR in pickup mode (-p) on the specified channel.  The \fIpobox\fR
program manages the interface between \fIsmslave\fR (i.e. the dial package) 
and \fIdeliver\fR (i.e. the mail queue).  
.LP
When acting as the ``smtpsrvr'', \fIsmslave\fR passes messages to the local
\fIsubmit\fR program
which queues messages on the local machine.  The source channel
and host are set according to the values defined for the specified pobox
channel.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
In the following example dialog, ``S'' indicates the \fIsmslave\fR and ``P''
indicates the \fIsmphone\fR.  One message is sent each way and then the call
is terminated.
.nf

	S: 220 Server SMTP (Complaints/bugs to: MMDF@A.CS.OKSTATE.EDU)
	P: HELO RELAY.CS.NET
	S: 250 a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: MAIL FROM:<@RELAY.CS.NET:long@sh.cs.net>
	S: 250 OK
	P: RCPT TO:<vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu>
	S: 250 Recipient OK.
	P: DATA
	S: 354 Enter Mail, end by a line with only '.'
	P: Date: Tue 9 Jun 87 16:38:19 EDT
	P: From: long@sh.cs.net
	P: To: vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: 
	P: Hello, there.
	P: .
	S: 250 Submitted & queued (msg.aa00125)
	P: TURN
	S: 250 OK
	P: 220 Server SMTP (Complaints/bugs to MMDF@RELAY.CS.NET)
	S: HELO a.cs.okstate.edu
	P: 250 RELAY.CS.NET
	S: MAIL FROM:<@RELAY.CS.NET:long@sh.cs.net>
	P: 250 OK
	S: RCPT TO:<vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu>
	P: 250 Recipient OK.
	S: DATA
	P: 354 Enter Mail, end by a line with only '.'
	S: Date: Tue 9 Jun 87 13:33:48 EDT
	S: From: vasoll@a.cs.okstate.edu
	S: To: long@relay.cs.net
	S:
	S: It works!
	S: .
	P: 250 Submitted & queued (msg.aa10744)
	S: QUIT
	P: 221 session complete at Wed Jun 10 03:58:23.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIsmphone\fR(8), \fIsubmit\fR(8), \fIdeliver\fR(8), RFC821

