.TH "SMTP" 8 "28 December 85"
.SH NAME
smtp \- SMTP outbound channel for MMDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
smtp (called by deliver)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The SMTP outbound channel is part of the MMDF mail system.
\fISmtp\fR is called directly by \fIdeliver\fR.
It follows the standard deliver/channel protocol and handles outbound
SMTP traffic.
\fISmtp\fR uses the channel configuration
string to specify what it should place in the HELO string of the
SMTP transaction.  This will override the use of \fIlocname\fR
for this function.
The following is a typical SMTP channel description from
the \fImmdftailor\fR file:
.sp
.ta 1.5i
MCHN	smtp, show=``SMTP/TCP'', que=smtp, tbl=smtp,
.br
	pgm=smtp, mod=reg, ap=822, confstr=``SERING.UUCP''
.sp
If host= is specified in the channel description, then the specified host is
looked up in the channel table and used as the connect host regardless of the
host to which the mail is addressed.  This is useful when offloading mail
addressed to a variety of destinations to a gateway for further delivery.
.PP
\fISmtp\fR uses the RHS of the channel table as the IP address to which to
connect.  Alternate IP addresses may be specified by putting additional lines
in the channel table with the same LHS.  For example:
.sp
.ta 1.5i
	FOO.BAR: 192.5.58.3
.br
	FOO.BAR: 10.3.0.8

.sp
In this case, the \fIsmtp\fR channel will attempt connection to 192.5.58.3
first.  If the connection fails or if the remote SMTP server doesn't start up
in reasonable time, the next address will be tried.  In the case of
nameserver-type channel tables, multiple IP addresses are tried based on the
available MX entries for that host.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deliver(8), submit(8), smtpd(8), RFC821, RFC974
