.TH "SMTPD" 8 "21 May 85"
.SH NAME
smtpd, smtpsrvr \- SMTP inbound channel for MMDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
smtpd [\-d] [\-f] [\-n maxconnects] smtpsrvr channels
.br
smtpd [\-i] [\-f] smtpsrvr channels
.sp
.br
smtpsrvr remotehost localhost channels
.br
rsmtpsrvr remotehost localhost channels  (finicky)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The SMTP inbound channel is part of the MMDF mail system.
It consists of two programs,
an SMTP server (\fIsmptsrvr\fR) and a connection server (\fIsmtpd\fR).
\fISmptsrvr\fR is designed to be called by a networking daemon
that has determined the identity of the caller and set up the network
connection on the server's standard input and output.
\fISmtpsrvr\fR interfaces between the network and the mail system.
It calls \fIsubmit\fR to pass mail into the system.
.PP
The
.I smtpd
program comes in several flavors depending on your operating system.
In some cases, the burden of limiting and waiting for inbound connections
is borne by a standard "daemon of daemons" (options \-i).  In other cases, 
.I smtpd 
performs these operations.  In any case, 
.I smtpd
is the link between the network connection and the
.I smtpsrvr 
program.
.PP
In the synopsis above, the first version of 
.I smtpd
is a standalone network daemons that accept incoming
connections and fork off copies of the smptsrvr to process
them. After preparing itself for accepting connection
.I smtpd 
gives up any root-permissions and set its effectiv-userid to the owner
of the \fIsubmit\fR.
The last version is called by the standard 
``daemon of daemons'' with one connection and fork the smtpsrvr to
process it.
The sun version calls the standard 
.I smtpsrvr
program with channels set to ``smtp''.
.PP
The \-i option tells smtpd that it is started by the super-daemon 'inetd'.
The \-d option enables debugging prints on the stderr output.
The \-f option (the \fBf\fRiniky option) causes 
incoming connections from unknown
hosts to be rejected.
.I Smtpd
notifies the \fIsmtpsrvr\fR program to use the finicky option
by calling it with argv[0] set to `rsmtpsrvr'.
The maxconnects argument sets the maximum number
of simultaneous connections to support.  This value defaults to 4 on 4.2
systems.
.PP
The smtpsrvr argument is the path to the \fIsmtpsrvr\fR
program (relative or absolute).
Generally this is something like /usr/mmdf/chans/smtpsrvr.
.PP
The channels argument is a comma-separated list of channels.  When a connection
is established, 
the source host is looked up in the host tables for these channels.
If the source host is found, the 
corresponding channel name is 
given to \fIsubmit\fR as the channel it should 
consider the mail to have come from for authorization purposes.
In the finicky mode,
if the source host is not found, \fIsmtpsrvr\fR will
reject the incoming mail.  In the normal (non-finicky)
mode, if the source host is not found, \fIsmtpsrvr\fR will assume the
mail came in on the last channel in the channels list.
.PP
If your smtp channel table is a nameserver-type channel table and you
are running in the finicky mode, then
you should include the "local" channel in the list of acceptable
channels.  If you do not include "local" in this case, you will not
be allowed to connect to your own server and submit mail because the
nameserver channel will not let you look up your own address.  (RFC 974
requires this to prevent mail loops).
.PP
Since the \fIsmtpsrvr\fR program sets the trustme flag when calling
\fIsubmit\fR,
it must be called by a process whose UID is that
of a trusted mail submitter (generally only root and mmdf).
.SH SEE ALSO
deliver(8), submit(8), smtp(8), RFC821
