.ta .8i 1.6i 2.4i 3.2i 4.0i 4.8i 5.6i 6.3i
.TH SUBMIT 8 "20 October 84"
.SH NAME
submit \- MMDF mail enqueuer
.SH SYNOPSIS
submit [\-L...*V...*Wbcdf...*g...*hi...*jk...*lmnqrstuvwxyz]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
All mail is entered into the MMDF mail transport environment
through the
.I submit
program.
This document is intended to provide the specific information
needed to control
.I submit.
While it can be called directly from a user's terminal,
access to
.I submit
is most
conveniently done through a program such as \fIv6mail\fR(1) or \fIsend\fR(1).
The MMDF library also has subroutine package
for invoking
.I submit.
See the
.I mm_
package, documented in
mmdf(3) for more information.
It has a set of procedures which make this process much easier.
Before proceeding, familiarity with the
channels(7)
document is recommended, since
.I mm
is a member of the family of channel modules.  It also will be useful
to read
replies(5),
which describes reply values.
.SS BASIC MODES
.PP
.I Submit
permits considerable flexibility with respect to
batching multiple submissions, response and error handling, and
address source specification.
.SS Multiple Submissions
.IP "1."
Terminate after one submission, such as is done by the mail command, or
.IP "2."
Permit multiple message submissions, as is done by the
SMTP channel and the MMDF telephone
.I slave.
.PP
The first mode is specified by passing any initialization
information in the submit invocation line (i.e., the
.IR exec (2)
call).  In the second mode, the initialization information is
given as the first input line, for each submission.  The format
of this information is the same for both modes.
.SS Response & Error Handling
.IP "1."
Accept input until error or end of message, but
terminate on any error, or
.IP "2."
Notify result for each
.B segment
and continue.
.PP
Response mode #1 is mandatory with Multiple mode #1.
Response mode #2 is called \fIprotocol mode\fR.  During it, each
address produces a status reply and the message text produces a
reply.  The domain of the term
.B segment
depends on the error.
Simple addressing errors cause rejection only of the erroneous
address.  Other errors may cause rejection of the entire message,
but permit submission of following messages.
.ne 5
.SS Addresses
.IP "1."
Extracted from components of the message text,
.IP "2."
Explicit list given, ahead of message text, or
.IP "3."
Both of the above (extracted and explicit addresses)
.PP
The first mode is common when mode #1 (non-protocol)
is also in force for
the Interaction and the Verification option.
The second mode
is commonly in force when the second modes apply for the other
options (protocol mode).
The third mode is of unclear benefit, but was easy to provide
and originally looked like a good idea.
.ne 5
.SS INITIALIZATION
.PP
A message's initialization information is specified through a
single string, passed either in the process-invocation argument
list or in the first line of
.I submit's
input.  Hence, the string
may be terminated either by a null or newline.  Spaces and tabs
in the line are ignored, unless part of a literal.  Specification
is only required for non-defaults.
.if n .ta .4i 2.6i 5.8i
.if t .ta .3i 1.8i 3.75i
.if t .RS
.nf
.sp
	Option	Value	Literal

1.	Relay source	a. none	(\fIdefault\fR)
	for the ``Via'' or	b. source channel	i...*
	``Received'' field	c. source host	h...*

2.	From/Sender	a. reject on error	(\fIdefault\fR)
	authentication	b. trust	t
		c. no trust (disclaim)	u

3.	Source-Info Field	a. not included	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. disclaim author	u
		c. user text	f...*

4.	Address list source	a. explicit list	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. extract from components	x...*
		c. both (extract and explicit)	g...*

5.	Address verification	a. abort on invalid	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. report on each address	v

6.	Delivery destination	a. mailbox	m (\fIdefault\fR)
		b. user's tty	y
		c. mailbox and tty	b

7.	Delivery attempt	a. leave for daemon	(\fIdefault\fR)
	(combinable)	b. deliver local now	l
		c. deliver netmail now	n

8.	Observation of	a. none	(\fIdefault\fR)
	immediate attempts	b. user will watch	w

9.	Return address	a. send to submittor	r
		b. send to ``Sender:''	s
		c. do not return	q 
		d. as specified	(\fInext line\fR)

10.	Returned mail	a. entire original	(\fIdefault\fR)
	contents	b. citation only	c

11.	Warnings	a. send warnings	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. do not send warnings	z

12.	Delay channel	a. enable delay channel	(\fIdefault\fR)
	usage	b. don't use delay	d

13.	Delay channel	a. not delay channel	(\fIdefault\fR)
	indicator	b. delay channel	j

14.	Nameserver	a. short timeouts	(\fIdefault\fR)
	timeouts	b. as specified	k...*

15.	Submission	a. not shown	(\fIdefault\fR)
	tracing	b. watch submission	W

16.	Logging file	a. as per msglog	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. as specified	L...*

17.	Logging level	a. as per msglog	(\fIdefault\fR)
		b. as specified	V...*
.fi
.if t .RE
.ne 5
.SS Comments
.IP General
Literals shown as characters, followed by an ellipsis,
followed by an asterisk (e.g. x...*), represent a string.  The first
character specifies the nature of the setting.  The value
for the setting is placed between that character and the
asterisk.  The value may be any string not containing an asterisk, null, or
newline.  The values for settings \fBx\fR and \fBg\fR are comma-separated
lists of strings.  These strings may not contain asterisks, nulls, newlines, or
commas.
.ne 5
.IP Specific
.IP "1. Relaying"
This is used when the calling program is interfacing with
another distribution system, effecting relaying.  The literal
after the \fBi\fR specifies the channel the
message is coming from.
The \fBh\fR may be used, in conjunction with \fBi\fR, to
specify the source host.  The literal is the name of the host.
.ne 5
.IP "2. Authentication"
Normally, the message must correctly identify its sender.
Anyone may send "anonymous" (unsigned) mail, but they
must use the \fBu\fR setting which bypasses authentication.
However, it also causes MMDF to include, in the Source-Info:
component, a statement noting the absence of
authentication.  Only root or relays may use the \fBt\fR
setting, which bypasses authentication and does not add a
disclaimer.  Others requesting it get \fBu\fR treatment.
.ne 5
.IP "3. Source-Info"
In addition to the action explained above, Source-Info:
can directly receive text, from the user, through the \fBf\fR
setting.  The value string is replicated on a separate
line in the field.
.ne 5
.IP "4. Address lists"
An explicit list has one address per line.  When \fBx\fR or
\fBg\fR are specified, they list the names of message
components, such as ``To:'' and ``CC:'', which are to be
searched for addresses.
.ne 5
.IP "5. Verification"
Normally, any illegal address will cause the entire
message to be rejected.  In \fBv\fR (verify) mode, the
acceptability of each message is reported and
encountering an illegal address does not abort
submission.
.ne 5
.IP "6. Delivery type"
Mail may be delivered to a recipient's mailbox (file),
online terminal (if the recipient is logged in), or a
combination of the two.  There is no default.  For each
message, its delivery mode must be specified.
(Delivery to online terminals is likely to be removed
in the near future.)
.ne 5
.IP "7. Attempt"
An immediate attempt causes a special
.I deliver
process to be forked and it will attempt to process the indicated
mail immediately.  (The \fBn\fR setting does not allow more
granularity, for historical reasons.) Otherwise, the
system's background daemon will get to it eventually.
The daemon also handles mail that initially could not be
delivered/relayed.  A channel's descriptor structure (in
.I chan.c
or the runtime tailor file)
specifies a channel as being Active, Passive,
or Background.  Only the first is processed by any request
for immediate delivery.  The second indicates a Post
Office Box-style channel.  The third limits the channel
to processing by the background
.I deliver
daemon, which may be necessary for restricting access to special channels,
such as dial-out telephones.
.ne 5
.IP "8. Observation"
If an immediate attempt is requested, the user may elect
to watch its progress.
.I Deliver
and its children will report assorted aspects of their activity.  If a quiet
attempt is requested, 
.I submit
returns as soon as
submission is completed.  That is, a quiet attempt is
performed detached.
.ne 5
.IP "9. Return address"
If the invoker of
.I submit
is not to receive return mail
(e.g., notification of delivery failure) then the next
input line (the first, if settings are specified in the
.IR exec (2)
call), contains an address that should receive the
notification.  It is not validated.  If either the \fBr\fR 
or the \fBs\fR switch is given, 
.I submit
will not read a line for the return address.  If no return mail should be
sent, the return address line should be empty (i.e., consist
of a newline, only.)  If the \fBq\fR switch is given, a return address is read
from the next line of input but the local system will not return mail if
delivery problems are encountered.  The return address given may be used
by other systems (if there are mail relays between the local system and the
recipient).
.ne 5
.IP "10. Return contents"
Normally, a copy of the entire message is sent with a
delivery-failure notice.  Using the \fBc\fR switch causes a
citation, comprising the message header and first three
lines of non-blank lines of the body, to be sent.
If more than 12 addresses are specified, for a message,
citation-only is automatically set.  In addition, no warning
message will be sent for addresses which take a long time to process
(a site dependent value); the final failure notice will always
be sent, if there are addresses that are never fully processed.
.ne 5
.IP "11. Warnings"
Normally MMDF will send a non-delivery warning if a message has
been undelivered after a small period (typically 12 to 72 hours,
depending on the site).  Deliver attempts continue until a
timeout period is reached.  This is typically after 3 to 10 days,
depending on the site.
.ne 5
.IP "12. Disable delay channel"
The delay channel is used to process mail submissions that could not
queued because necessary nameserver information was unavailable
and therefore an authoritative decision on the validity of the address
was not possible.
If the \fBd\fR option is specified, use of the delay channel is
prohibited.  If the nameserver fails, a error is returned, rather
than a conditional OK.
.ne 4
.IP "13. Delay channel indicator"
This option is intended only to be used by the delay channel itself
to indicate to submit that the invoking process IS the delay channel.
This option implies the \fBd\fR option above.
.ne 5
.IP "14. Nameserver timeouts"
By default, MMDF uses a short timeout algorithm.  This is suitable for
user interface programs which don't want to wait a long time for dead
nameservers.  The \fBk\fR option allows a different timeout to be set.
The value given is the number of seconds to wait for the nameserver
lookup to complete.  
.ne 5
.IP "15. Submission tracing"
The \fBW\fR option causes submit to print a detailed
description of its activities
on file descriptor 2.  It will indicate, for each
addressee, the channel and addresses queued.
This can generate a great deal of output if a mailing list is
encountered, so it should be used with caution.
.ne 5
.IP "16. Logging file"
The \fBL\fR option allows the specification of an alternate logging file
at runtime.
The string following the \fBL\fR should be the name of the logfile
to be used.
It can be terminated by a * or the end of the arguments.
This option is only available to the Superuser or MMDF.
.ne 5
.IP "17. Logging level"
The \fBV\fR option allows the setting of the logging level at runtime.
The string following the \fBV\fR should be one of the valid MMDF
logging level strings such as FTR or BST.
It can be terminated by a * or the end of the arguments.
This option is only available to the Superuser or MMDF.
.RE
.ne 16
.SS INPUT STREAM
.PP
The following augmented BNF characterizes submit's input
(file descriptor zero) format:
.RS
.IP  stream: 14
*(init-seq '\\n' msg-info null) [null]
.IP  init-seq: 14
*{ switches listed above }
.IP  msg-info: 14
[ret-addr] '\\n'
.br
[addr-seq '!' '\\n']
.br
{ rfc822-format message }
.IP  ret-addr: 14
{ rfc822-format (return) address }
.IP  addr-seq: 14
*{ rfc822-address }
.RE
.SS ADDRESS FORMAT
.PP
Addresses are expected to conform to the ARPANET mail standard
known as RFC-822, available from the Network Information Center
at SRI International.
Submit (and MMDF in general) also continues to support RFC-733 style
mail for compatibility with earlier mail systems.
.PP
In addition to those in RFC-822, the following address
delimeters are recognized within the local part of addresses
(in order of precedence):
.ta 1.5i
.sp
	@
.br
	%
.br
	!
.br
	.
.sp
The "!" delimeter is interpreted as "host!user" while the others are
interpreted as "user?host".
For example, the address "a.b!user%c@localhost" would be queued for 
"a.b!user@c".  The address "a.b!user@localhost" would be queued for
"user@a.b".  The address "user.a@localhost" would be queued for "user@a".
Note that recognition of the "." delimeter is a site-selectable option.
The LEFTDOTS option is discussed in \fIInstalling and Operating MMDF II\fR.
.PP
Also, addresses may be indirectly referenced, through a file
specification of the form:
.PP
  ``<filename'' or ``:include:filename''
.PP
where the angle-bracket must be the first non-blank character of
the specification (to distinguish it from the ``<...>'' usage, above).

Addresses in the file may be separated by commas or newlines.
.bp
.SS EXAMPLE INTERACTIONS
.PP
Phases involve Invocation (Invoke), data sent into
.I submit
via
its file descriptor zero (To), data returned from
.I submit
via its
file descriptor one (From), iteration back to the specified phase
(Loop), and process exit value (Exit).
.IP "1."
Simple, single-message, as with the \fIv6mail\fR command:
.RS
.IP "a. Invoke:" 15
Parameters, ``-mlrxto,cc*'', indicate that the
message is to be sent to recipients' mailboxes,
local mail should be sent immediately, return
mail goes to the submittor, and addresses are to
be extracted from the ``To:'' and ``cc:``
components.
.IP "b. To:" 15
The entire message
.IP "c. From:" 15
Error messages
.IP "d. Exit:" 15
Process return value, in wait(&val), taken from
.I mmdf.h,
indicating submission status.
.RE
.IP 2.
Standard, multi-message protocol:
.RS
.IP "a. Invoke:" 15
No parameters
.IP "b. To:" 15
Initialization information line.  A typical
user program might have "mlrv", indicating the
message is to be sent to mailboxes, local mail
sent immediately, return mail goes to the
sender, and each address verification is to be
reported.  A relay program might have
"mlntviVGR.BRL.MIL*", with "mlv" as above and the
other settings indicating that mail for non-local
channels is to be sent immediately, the
author information is to be trusted, and the
"Received:  " component should cite the mail as being
relayed via Internet host VGR.BRL.MIL.
.IP "c. To:" 15
One address, terminated by a newline ('\\n').
.IP "d. From:" 15
Status character, from
.I mmdf.h,
plus human-oriented
text plus newline.
.IP "e. Loop:" 15
Back to (c).  Terminate with address line having
only an exclamation mark (\fB!\fR), with newline.
.IP "f. To:" 15
Message text, in Internet RFC #822 format.
Multi-line, terminated by null ('\\0').
.IP "g. From:" 15
Status character, text, newline.
.IP "h. Loop:" 15
Back to (b).  Terminate with initialization line
having only a null, without newline.
.SH CHANNELS
.PP
When MMDF is used in conjunction with the DARPA domain nameserver
system, a ``delay'' channel should be configured to allow
queuing of addresses that fail verification temporarily due
to nameserver failures (unavailability).
Two other special channels that can be configured are
the ``badusers'' and ``badhosts'' channels.
Mail to unknown users or unknown hosts will be queued to
these channels if they are configured.
The bad channels have no special code associated with them.
The channel configuration should reference whatever table and
program is necessary to reach a smarter host which can deliver
or forward the mail.  The channel should have the ``host=''
parameter set to this host name.
The channel names given above are reserved.
.SH FILES
Numerous.  Generally under the MMDF login directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIsend\fR(1), mmdf(3), \fIdeliver\fR(8)
