.TH MLIST 1
.SH NAME
mlist \- mailing list addition and query program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlist
[\-ch] [\-f filename] [arg.....]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mlist
is an interactive program that allows the user to create a new mailing list
or specify changes to an old one, and uses
\fIv6mail\fR(1) to send a request to the system administrator.
For each list, there is a list manager
indicated in the MMDF alias file by an alias of the form
``foo-request'' where ``foo'' is the name of the list.
This person, as well as the
mailsystem owner and the superuser have a mechanism to add and
remove any list entry.
.I Mlist
attempts to ensure that erroneous and duplicate entries do not
get entered.  There is also a mechanism to verify the contents of a
list.
.PP
.I Mlist
may either be used in a self-explanatory interactive mode  (no
arguments), or by use of flags.
.RS
.TP 4
\-c
initiates mail list creation request
.TP 4
\-h
initiates help
.TP 4
\-f
filename     specifies another help file
.TP 4
other args are taken as names of lists to manipulate
.RE
.PP
Mailing list files should never be accessed directly by the
user, and should always be owned by the mail system.  The mode of
the file indicates how it should be handled.  There are four
possibilities.
.RE
.TP 4
666
All users have list manager status
.TP 4
744
Users may add or remove their own names
.TP 4
644
Only list manager may make changes
.TP 4
600
Contents of list private.  This does not affect usage controls.
.RE
.SH FILES
/etc/mmdf/helplist for default helpfile.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
malias(1), tables(5), v6mail(1)

