.tr ~
.TH RCVFILE 1 "26 December 1985"
.SH NAME
rcvfile \- put message into named file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcvfile
directory [
.B \-l
logfile ] [
.B \-m
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is intended to be invoked
from the user's
.I \&.maildelivery
file in the manner suggested below.
Its purpose in life is to examine the
.I Subject:
field of the message and determine if this message
is a candidate for filing.
If so, the program skips over the message headers and
files the text into the file given in the subject line.
It can be invoked manually if desired, and a message piped into it.
.PP
A message is considered fair game if the subject line
has the word
.I rcvfile
as the first word of the
.I Subject:
field.
The
.I directory
argument is required.
The destination file name is created by concatenation of the
.I directory,
a "/", and the filename given in the subject field after 
The filename from the subject field is not allowed to contain
any ".." directory components.  If any are found, rcvfile aborts.
.PP
The
.I \-l
option sets the logfile where a record of
.I rcvfile
activity is made.  The file must already exist and be writable
to the recipient.
The
.I \-m
option enables the creation of missing directories in the pathname
of a file to be created.  They will be mode 0755.
.PP
The owner of the created file will be notified by mail of the fact that
a file has been delivered, with information about who sent it
and other interesting bits.
The owner may not be the recipient if the referenced file existed,
was owned by another user, and was writable.
If the file delivery fails for any reason, the message
will be delivered as normal mail.
.SH EXAMPLE
A typical entry in the user's
.I .maildelivery
file is:
.nf
subject    rcvfile      pipe    A    rcvfile
.br
.I or
.br
Addr      user=file    pipe    A    rcvfile
.fi
.sp
You may need to give the full pathname of rcvfile if it is not
in the search path of a vanilla /bin/sh.
.SH FILES
.IP "<login directory>/.maildelivery"
.SH SEE ALSO
maildelivery(5)
.SH AUTHOR
David H. Crocker
