.TH RCVTRIP 1 "5 December 1984"
.SH NAME
rcvtrip \- notifies mail sender that recipient is away.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcvtrip
[
.B \-d
] [
.B address
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rcvtrip
makes it possible for you
to notify the sender of a message that you are on
holiday and you won't be answering your mail for some time.
.I Rcvtrip
is run by MMDF on your behalf rather than by you directly.
.PP
To enable use of
.I rcvtrip,
put the following line in your .maildelivery file:
.sp
.nf
*    \-    pipe    R    rcvtrip $(sender)
.fi
.sp
Make sure that your .maildelivery file is not writable by anyone but you.
You may also place a "custom" reply message in a file named `tripnote'.
Finally, you should create an empty `triplog' file.
.PP
When
.I rcvtrip 
processes a message, it performs the following steps:
.RS
.IP "1)"
Decide whether this is the type of message that should get a reply.
.IP "2)"
Decide who the reply should get sent to.
.IP "3)"
Decide whether this sender has already gotten a reply.
.RE
.PP
.I Rcvtrip
decides whether this is the type of message that should get a reply by looking
at the contents of the "Resent-To:", "Resent-Cc:", "To:" and "Cc:" header
fields.
If the recipient has an .alter_egos file (described below), 
then one of the addresses in that file must
appear in the one of these header fields for a reply to be sent.  
If the recipient
does not have an .alter_egos file, then the recipient's name or a first-order
alias of the recipient's name (e.g. dlong\-\->long) must appear in one of these
header fields for a reply to be sent.  This procedure insures that
.I rcvtrip
will not reply to messages sent to mailing lists, unless the recipient's name
(or some variant of the recipient's name) is explicitly mentioned in a
header field.
.PP
If
.I rcvtrip
has decided that it should send a reply for the message, then it looks at
several other address fields to determine to whom the reply should be sent.
It uses, in order of precedence:
.RS
.IP "1)"
addresses in `Resent-Reply-To:' 
.IP "2)"
addresses in `Resent-From:' and, if present, `Resent-Sender:'
.IP "3)"
addresses in `Reply-To:' 
.IP "4)"
addresses in `From:' and either `Sender:', if present, or the
.B address
argument from the command line.
.RE
.PP
.I Rcvtrip
will notify any originator of mail who has not previously been notified
unless you pre-load their address into the `triplog' file (see below).
The reply
begins with some standard text (supplied by
\fIrcvtrip\fR) followed by whatever
text the user has placed in the `tripnote' file (or a canned message if
the `tripnote' file is missing).
The originators' names are recorded in `triplog', along with the date and
time the message came in, an indication of whether it was answered (`+'=yes),
and the first few characters of the subject.
This appears as:
.sp
.nf
+ jpo@nott.ac.uk	Wed Oct 8 16:08 >> about your last message
.fi
.SH FILES
.IP "<login directory>/tripnote" 25
The user-written reply message is located in this file.
.IP "<login directory>/triplog" 25
This contains a list of who sent a message, what was its subject,
when it arrived, and if a response was sent.  It can also be initialized by
hand to contain
the addresses, one per line, which are not to receive replies.
.IP "<login directory>/logfile" 25
If this file exists, then 
.I rcvtrip
will log diagnostic information into it.
If the \fB\-d\fR switch is given, then extensive output is
generated for debugging purposes. It is not a good idea to leave
\fB\-d\fR enabled if this file is left lying around, 
as the output can be quite voluminous.
.IP "<login directory>/.alter_egos" 25
The optional file composed of `user@domain' lines for all addresses to be
considered `you'.  This is needed if you have multiple hosts forwarding their
mail to you.  If this file is present, then the standard comparisons against
your username and first-level aliases of your username do not occur.  
.IP "<login directory>/.maildelivery" 25
The user's mail delivery specification file.  The example above shows the line
that should be added to .maildelivery to enable use of
.I rcvtrip.
In this line, the $(sender) argument is optional (but recommended).
You may need to give the full pathname of
.I rcvtrip
if it is not in the search path of a vanilla /bin/sh.
.SH SEE ALSO
rcvalert(1), maildelivery(5)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Bruce Whittaker (Initial Version)
.br
Julian Onions (Total Rewrite)
