.TH RESEND 1 "27 December 1986"
.SH NAME
resend \- redistribute mail using the Resent- notation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resend
[\-rw] [\-\-subargs] addresses [\-t addresses] [\-c addresses]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Resend
is responsible for taking as input a standard mail message,
adding the various Resent- components to it, and then handing
it over to \fIsubmit\fR.
.PP
The usual method of operation is to pipe a message into
.I resend
and supply on the command line the addresses to resend the message
to.  Aliases defined through the personal alias mechanism in
.I send,
may also be used with
.I resend.
See \fIsend\fR(1).
The default behavior can be changed by using the following
flags:
.IP \-r
This specifies that error returns for this message are not
wanted, if the message gets into problems with delivery, you
couldn't care less.
.IP \-w
This flag enables you to follow the delivery attempt. Submit
and its children will print out what they are doing.
.IP \-\-
Any argument starting in this manner is passed directly
to submit after losing the \-\-. You had better know what you are
doing!
.PP
After the flags have been processed, the address lists for
the message are built up. Normally all addresses are put onto
one Resent-To: line, but they can be broken up onto
several Resent-To: lines by prefixing a block of addresses
with the \-t flag. Alternatively the \-c flag will start
building up a list of Resent-Cc: addresses.
.I Resend
looks after all the other headers, such as Resent-Date, Resent-From
etc.
.SH FILES
<login directory>/.signature
.br
<login directory>/.sendrc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
send(1), v6mail(1), submit(8)
