.TH SND 1 "01/29/86"
.SH NAME
snd \- send mail (using a visual editor)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snd
[address\.\.\.] [\-b\ address\.\.\.] [\-c\ address\.\.\.] [\-h\ host]
[\-s\ subject] [\-t\ address\.\.\.] [\-f\ file] [\-n]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Snd
sends messages to a user-specified list of recipients.
When invoked without arguments, snd places the user in $EDITOR with 
the "from" line already filled in, and the following fields blank:
.sp 1
.RS
.nf
To:
cc:
Subject:
.fi
.sp 1
.RE
Snd will select the editor by first looking in the .sendrc for "veditor", then
for "editor", then $VISUAL, then $EDITOR, and then the default (as
compiled-in by your system manager).
The expected user responses are:
.RS
.IP "1)" 4
To the "To:" and "cc:" prompts,
a list of valid user names (see below).
.IP "2)" 4
To the "Subject:" prompt,
a brief description of the subject of the message.
.RE
.PP
Copies of the message are delivered to recipients on
the "To:" and "cc:" lists.
A response to the "To:" prompt is required, unless blind carbon
copies (bcc) are specified.
.PP
The user should fill-in the header fields to the right of the colon.
.PP
The user must leave a blank line between the header field and the body
of the message.  Without the blank line after the headers, the message
text up to the first blank line will be construed as just a continuation
of the last header line.  
.sp
.SS Arguments
.PP
.I "Snd"
may be invoked with arguments.
If they are specified, then the
contents of any resulting fields will be filled in when the user enters the
editor.
Unless switches (a character preceded by a dash) are used, the
arguments are taken to be addresses for the "To:" field.
.RS
.IP "\-b" 4
causes following arguments to be added to the "BCC:" field.
.IP "\-h" 4
causes the next argument to be used as the default host reference,
for addresses not explicitly containing a hostname.  When not
specified, the default is the local host.
.IP "\-c" 4
causes following arguments to be added to the "cc:" field.
.IP "\-s" 4
causes the next argument to be used as
the "Subject:" field's contents.
.IP "\-t" 4
causes following arguments to be added to the "To:" field.
.IP "\-f" 4
causes following file to be included in the message.
.IP "\-n" 4
causes the text input stage to be skipped.  The user is given 
the "command or ?:" prompt immediately after the header information is given.
.RE
.sp
.SS "Valid User Addresses"
.PP
A valid address name takes one of the following forms:
.RS
.IP "1)" 4
A local Unix user's login name, such as "crocker."
.IP "2)" 4
A name which has been designated as a local alias, such as "support."
This usually will not look any different from login names, except
that it may be longer than their 8-character limit.
.IP "3)" 4
The two-part "mailbox@host" address for a user on another machine.
.RE
.PP
Validation of names is done at posting time, and is performed
by the message delivery system, rather than by
.I "snd."
All addresses
are made to have a host reference.  If the user does not specify
a host for an address, then the default host is assumed.
.PP
The user enters the text of the message below the address and subject fields.
When the message is completed, or when the user wishes to insert
a file, s/he merely exits the editor normally.
.I Snd
then prompts the user for its next action.
.sp
.SS "User Options and Environmental Tailoring"
.PP
The user may define a file in his home directory called ".sendrc".  If such a
file exists,
.I "snd"
will open the file and set options as specified,
otherwise the defaults will be used. Below are listed the options available
for user modification along with their default values.
.sp 2
.IP "aliases"
.RS
Allows the user to declare his own set of aliases for use with
.I "snd."
Unless this file name begins with a '/', 
.I snd
will look for this file in the user's home directory.
The format for this file is:
.RS
aliasname  user1@host,user2@host,user3@host...
.RE
Note that each entry must be on a single line but each line may be
up to 511 characters long.  The host may be eliminated if the default
host is correct.
.RE
.IP "checker"
.RS
This will be the user's spelling checker while using \fIsnd\fR.  The default
for this option is \fIspell\fR.
.RE
.IP "copyfile"
.RS
This is the file in which copies of messages will be stored if
requested by the user. Unless the first character of the supplied
filename is '/', the file will be created in the user's home
directory. The default for the copyfile is a file
called ".sent" in the users home directory.
See also 
"file, nofile, fileonquery" below.
.RE
.IP "draftdir"
.RS
If supplied, draft files will be created in this directory.
Otherwise, they will be created in the user's home directory.  
Drafts are used for intermediate storage of the message body, and are
deleted after a normal exit.  Should snd exit abnormally, your message
will be saved as a draft file.
Draftdir should be a complete path name.
.RE
.IP "editor, veditor"
.RS
This will be the user's editor while using
.I "snd."
The default for this option is described above.  If both "editor" and "veditor"
are specified, the latter definition will apply.
.RE 
.IP "file, nofile, fileonquery"
.RS
The presence of one of these options allows the users to control
the keeping of file copies. 
"File"
will result in a copy being kept of every
message sent by the user. 
"Nofile" 
will turn off the file copy
option and no copies will ever be kept.
"Fileonquery"
will cause
.I "snd"
to query the user as to whether a copy should be kept or not.
.RE
.IP "header"
.RS
This option allows user-defined header lines to be added to the message being
sent.  The first argument is the field name (e.g. Organization).  The second
argument is the contents of the field (e.g. West Podunk College).  A separate
header line will be added for each "header" command in the .sendrc file.
.RE
.IP "paging"
.RS
Having this in your .sendrc will cause your message to be displayed through
the "more" program when using the "review message" command.
.RE
.IP "sign_cmd, encrypt_cmd"
.RS
Which command to execute for signing / encrypting the email.
Default is: 
sign_cmd = "pgps --armor -f -t"
encrypt_cmd = "pgpe --armor -f -t"
.RE
.IP "signature, nosignature"
.RS
.I "Snd"
will automatically fill in the "From:" field with your address.  The
form of the contents is either:
.RS
login@host  or  Full Name <login@host>
.RE
.RE
where "login" is your Unix login name, and "host"
is the name of the Unix you are using.  The second form is the default on
some systems.  On these systems, "Full Name" is derived from the system
password file.  The "nosignature" command forces \fIsnd\fR to use the form:
.RS
login@host
.RE
.PP
You may personalize your messages by including a signature.  If
your 
.I ".sendrc"
file contains a signature line, its contents
will be used in the "From:" field, ahead of the address information.
The signature cannot contain any of the following characters
unless quoted with double quotes: '( ) < > @ , ; : \ \ " . [ ]' 
and it cannot be blank.
The program will verify the signature line for correctness at startup
and will complain if your signature is illegal.
The "From:" field then will appear as follows:
.RS
.sp
signature <login@host>
.RE
.IP "subargs"
.RS
Allows the user to specify additional flags for the \fIsubmit\fR program
('v' and 'm' are always passed). Probably not for general use.
.RE
.sp
.PP
The format for a typical
.I ".sendrc"
profile is shown below:
.RS
.nf

copyfile sent_mail
draftdir /usr/joe/.drafts
signature Joe Foobar
subargs w
editor gemacs
fileonquery
aliases joes_aliases
header Organization "West Podunk College"
.fi
.RE
.SS "Commands"
.PP
.I "snd"
commands must be followed by a carriage return.
Only enough of a command to make it unique need be typed.
The following are valid commands:
.IP "?"
.br
displays a list of
.I "snd's"
commands.
.IP "bcc"
.br
prompts for addresses for the "BCC:" Blind carbon copies field.
If any addresses are specified for Blind carbon copies, 
they receive a slightly different message than those listed in
"To:" or "cc:".  Their copy has a header component named "BCC:"; its
contents are the string "(Private)".
If the message had no "To:" addresses, then the
"To:" field will contain the string "list:" and there will be no
BCC field.  In addition, the "To:" and "cc:" fieldnames are modified to prevent
recipients from
automatically replying to
anyone in the "To:" or "cc:" fields.
.RS
.IP
NOTE: If a message has normal and BCC recipients and there is an error
with a BCC address, the normal addresses will have been processed,
and the copy of their message sent, before the BCC address error
is detected.
.RE
.IP "quit"
.br
exits the
.I "snd"
program.
If the user has not yet sent the message, the user is asked
to confirm the action.
A "yes" (or 'y') is required, followed by a <CR>, or the command will
be aborted and the user returned to the "Command or ?:" prompt.
.IP "bye"
.br
same as "quit".
.IP "check spelling"
.br
will invoke the spelling checker with the draft filename as the argument
to the checker program.  (See "checker" user option above.)
.IP "ed"
.br
will invoke the user's editor 
and read in the user's headers, and message body for editing. (See "editor" 
user option above.)
.IP "file"
.br
indicates the user wishes to append a file to the end of the message body.
.I "Snd"
will prompt for file name.
.IP "post"
.br
same as "send".
.IP "review message"
.br
retypes message in its current form.  If "paging" is specified in the .sendrc,
then the draft will be displayed via the "more" program.
.IP "sign"
.br
append a pgp signature to the message.
.IP "encrypt"
.br
encrypt the message.
.IP "send"
.br
posts the message to the message delivery system.
The message is delivered immediately to local users and queued for later
delivery to non-local users.
The sender is informed of the posting disposition of the message.
Each address
is listed and followed by its status, indicating that the
address is ok, or that there was a problem.
.RS
.PP
If all addresses are valid, the sender is then informed that the message
has successfully been posted for delivery.
If any addresses are found to be invalid, the remaining addresses are
still checked, but submission is aborted.  The user
is returned to command input,
so that he may change the addresses and make them legal.
.RE
.IP "set"
.br
allows the user to check the current values of option variables. If followed
by arguments, allows the user to change the current setting of variables.
The changed value lasts only for the current invocation of 
.I "snd."
.IP "program run"
.br
allows the user to give a shell command.
.I "Snd"
prompts for program.
The user's response is passed to the shell.
Control is returned to
.I "snd"
when the command has been executed.
.IP "CTRL-D"
.br
same as "quit"
.SH FILES
.IP "<login directory>/.sendrc" 38
user options
.IP "<login directory>/aliases" 38
user supplied alias file
.IP "<login directory>/.sent" 38
sent messages
.IP "<login directory>/drft.XXXXXX" 38
body of current message
.SH "SEE ALSO"
v6mail(1), msg(1), resend(1), send(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All diagnostic messages are intended to be self explanatory.
