.TH V6MAIL 1 "7 Nov 84"
.SH NAME
v6mail \- send mail to designated user(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B v6mail 
[-yn ] 
.br
.B v6mail 
to-addressees ... [\-c cc-addressees ...] [\-f from] [\-g signature] [\-i] [\-r] 
.br
	[\-s subject-text] [\-t more-to-addressees ...] [--submit-args]
.br
	[\-a replyto-text]
.sp
(Sometimes installed as "mail" instead of "v6mail")
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes a program which is intended to
be upwards compatible with the original Unix Version 6
.I mail
command
from Bell Labs.  This program uses the MMDF system to perform
distribution.  Differences that are visible to the user lie in
the treatment of individual messages during the display
function, the creation of messages which conform with Arpanet
message format (syntax), and the availability of
additional switches during message creation.

The first form of the
.I v6mail
command (no arguments or exactly one which is a switch "\-y" or
"\-n") shows you any new mail which is in your
MMDF mailbox.  The original Bell Labs
.I mail
command lists the contents of the entire mailbox and
then asks if you want it all saved.  If you indicate yes,
then it is added (pre-pended) to the file "mbox" in your
login directory. The
.I v6mail
command behaves similarly,
except that it queries you about the handling of
.I each
message, rather than all of them together, and the messages
are appended to the
.I end
of mbox.  If a switch "\-y" or "\-n" is
specified, then it is taken to be the response to the "Save?"
queries.  To delete a message, you must answer the query
with a wording starting with "n".  Any other response (including
an emply line) will cause the message to be saved in mbox.
Aborting the command will leave your mailbox and mbox untouched.

The second form of the
.I v6mail
command creates and sends a
message to the indicated recipient(s).  Headers for the
message are created automatically and, optionally, as
indicated by certain command arguments as explained below.
These headers are created in the order implied by the
parameter list.  (Note that this can cause multiple 
header-components of the
same name to be created, separated by other components.)  A
"Date:" component is always created, containing the creation
date and time of the message.  The text body of the message
is read from standard input.  The message which is sent
conforms to current Arpanet standards and can be manipulated by
systems such as \fImsg\fR and MH.  
No draft message is created; so the message may
not be edited after initial creation and before it is sent.

When parameters are not preceded by a switch parameter (i.e.,
one with a dash as its first character) they are taken to be
primary addressees for the mail.  These addressees are then
listed in the message's "To:" component(s).  

A recipient address may consist of the login name of a local
user (e.g., "Joe" or "Smith"), an alias which is
contained in the aliases file (e.g., Project-Leaders) or a full
network name (e.g., "smith@a.cs.okstate.edu").
Obviously, use of network addresses requires the
availability of a network, although reference to the local
host (the one you are using) is always allowed.

.I V6mail
looks for an optional file called ".signature" in the user's home directory
and fills in the signature in the "From:" or "Sender:" component that 
corresponds to the user.  (Make sure that ".signature" contains
one line and that the contents are in double quotes if they contain
non-alphanumeric characters.)  

The "\-t" switch causes following parameters to (again) be
used as addressees in the "To:" header.  Normally, therefore,
the switch is not needed.

The "\-c" switch causes following parameters to be used as
addressees and listed in a "cc:" (carbon copy) header.  This
is in effect until the next switch parameter is encountered.

The "\-s" switch causes the next single parameter to be used
as the text of a "Subject:" component of the message.  Note
that to include more than one word as text, the text must be
surrounded by quotation marks.

The "\-a" switch causes the next single parameter to be used
as the text of a "Reply-to:" component of the message.  Note
that to include more than one word as text, the text must be
surrounded by quotation marks.

The "\-g" switch causes the next single parameter to be used
as the text of the signature in the "From:" component of
the message.  Note that to include more than one word as text, 
the text must be surrounded by quotation marks.
Only the first occurence of either "\-f" or "\-g" is used.  

The "\-f" switch causes the next single parameter to be used
as the text of a "From:" component of the message.  If this
is used, then a "Sender:" component will automatically be
created and contain the address of the user who is actually
running the 
.I v6mail
program.  This is necessary to guarantee
authentication of mail.  This switch is useful when an agent,
such as a daemon process or a secretary, is logged in under
your name and wants to indicate that the agent, rather than you,
issued the note.  Only the first occurence of either "\-f" or "\-g"
is used.

The "\-i" switch instructs 
.I v6mail
to include a "Message-Id:"
component, containing a unique message identification string.
For current usage, this is not normally needed.

The "\-r" switch instructs
.I v6mail
to ignore any problems with delivery.  Normally, the "\-r" switch
is omitted and the sender is notified of any delays or failures
in the delivery process.

The "--" switch can be used to pass arguments on to MMDF's \fIsubmit\fR
program which is responsible for actually processing
(sending) mail.  Only one "--" switch setting may be used and
it may contain several values to be passed to \fIsubmit\fR.  If
more than one "--" switch is specified, the last one will be
used.  It is generally unlikely that you will need to use
this feature; however, two switches might prove useful: "--y"
causes the message to be sent to the user's terminal, if the
user is logged in and the user's screen is writable.  "--w" lets
you watch the delivery process, allowing you to verify that
delivery actually occurs.  This switch, therefore, is useful
when the mail is important and you are not adequately certain
that the mail system can be trusted, such as when it is newly
installed on the system.  To use both switches, simply
specify "--yw".
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf


"v6mail Farber" gives a message with the following headers:

.RS
Date: Sun, 24 Feb 84 12:43:11 EST
From: Dcrocker@UDEE
To: Farber@UDEE
.RE


"v6mail whittake farber \-c dcrocker" gives:

.RS
Date: Sun, 24 Feb 84 12:43:11 EST
From: Dcrocker@UDEE
To: whittake@UDEE, farber@UDEE
cc: dcrocker@UDEE
.RE


"v6mail farber \-c dcrocker \-t sincos@xerox.com \-g 'Dave Crocker' \-s 'test message'" gives:

.RS
Date: Sun, 24 Feb 84 12:43:11 EST
From: Dave Crocker <Dcrocker@UDEE>
Subject: test message
To: Farber@UDEE
To: sincos@xerox.com
cc: dcrocker@UDEE
.RE
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
msg(1), resend(1), send(1), snd(1), submit(8)
.SH BUGS
.I V6mail
cannot be run on a mailbox that is being read with
\fImsg\fR(1).  It will print an error message and exit if a binary
file exists for a mailbox to prevent trashing the mailbox later
with \fImsg\fR.
.I V6mail
should be rewritten to maintain the binary file.
.PP
.I V6mail
doesn't like empty .signature files.
